you are being slaughtered and you don't
realize this there could be a dollar
crisis they're debating the currency by
15% a year I mean it is inevitable that
it's going to happen but does that just
mean that we're crazy and that it's
going to be fine I'm not saying
everybody is wrong I'm saying that
people that believe in Bitcoin are wrong
you're missing the point why the hell
would anybody buy these These are
obviously going to go to zero I'm not
concerned about the Cliff of death how
do we make sense of these numbers or is
this a guaranteed Slaughter and we just
don't know
when
the tension between the way the two of
you think has been really instrumental
in helping me and I think countless
others um build a worldview that will
help them navigate uh different moments
in the economy well um I think right now
we're going through a period of just
massive transition and so I come to the
debate between um crypto not crypto with
that in mind so to oversimplify your
guys's stances um I see r i see you as
Pro crypto Peter I seeu as anti- crypto
I know those are really gross
simplifications so I'd love to start
with Ral if you could walk us through
your position um how you see crypto why
you think it's valuable and then Peter
will come to you for your take okay so
I'm I think we will both agree that
things are pretty screwed up we'll all
agree right what is really screwed up is
the world is massively in
debt the workforce is shrinking
population growth is slowing down it's
slowing down GDP growth so there's not
enough GDP growth to pay or service the
amount of debt out there and what we
found since 2008 that the answer to this
debt issue has been printing of more
money debasement of currency people
think of it in terms of at first they
think it's going to be inflation as in
the price of CPI goes up but it's
actually not it's actually something
much worse is Wages don't rise
but assets go up because optically
you're debasing the
currency your future self is getting
poorer because assets are all about
storing wealth for future deferred
consumption but what's happening is you
can't afford as much of that
now and so your future self is in fact
poorer so a classic example is a 35y old
now in the United States getting married
having kids a house is very expensive
now
compared to when Peter and I were young
it was relatively cheap three times
incomes now it's like 10 times incomes
so there's no real way of getting up the
ladder the equity Market is much more
expensive your kind of percentage share
of the S&P is so much less so the
advantages that your parents had are not
available to
you so that's a problem at a problem for
society overall is this issue of
debasement of currency the government
are doing it cuz there's no way of
paying the debt so what you're going to
have to do is continue to print money so
then if that is the
case and I found out in this everything
code analysis that I talked to you about
what we found is since 2008 they reset
interest rates it's like a debt reset
the debt Jubilee happened it was
everybody was given the chance to not
pay interest and everybody reset their
debts on this 3 to 5e time Horizon
and so four years is the middle and
we've got this perfect fouryear cycle
all assets are now incredibly correlated
with this cycle whether it's Emerging
Markets whether it's the dollar whether
it's rates whether it's crypto whether
it's gold whether it's equities
everything so if we've got a super
correlated environment where asset
prices keep going up because of
debasement of currency I the Optics
because the value of the currency going
down then your job is to find something
that offsets it so the rate of basement
by my calculation is about 15% a year on
a globalized basis so your hurdle rate
is
15% now equities have done something not
far off that but that just means you're
not actually making any money you're
actually just standing still NASDAQ
which is in a secular trend has actually
beaten that 15% hurdle rate somewhat so
it's actually
helped the traditional way of doing it
would have been gold and you know I've
been a long-term gold investor I've
always like gold but gold has not done
particularly well in recent years
against de basement on a globalized
basis it still works beautifully well as
a Global Currency and against Global
debasement over time it works but the
really strong debasement we've been
having in recent years it just hasn't
done well enough and many of us from the
macro world started thinking okay we
need to find what is this hedge what is
the right way of doing
this and that's where crypto which I've
been involved in for a long time started
to really fit in here because it offers
a bunch of ways that the financial
system can use it in an overly indebted
system where you've got a collateral and
then like 30 uses of that same
collateral so nobody owns anything you
own a fraction of what you think you own
in an indebted system same with a bank
you have money in a bank it's not your
money it's actually the bank's money and
that's been proven time and time again
Bank bail-ins in Europe were
particularly
bad so we've got a broken Financial
system and the blockchain rails are
something that's actually very useful we
can figure out who owns what at any
point with instant settlement so it
reduces a lot of the risk of the
settlement layer but also you got you
gave the rise of cryptocurrencies which
also have this supply and demand Dynamic
that's interesting there's a limited
Supply and it has the properties
somewhat of digital
gold and that's worked very well if you
look at that because you've got this
technology adoption of the blockchain
plus this store of value or this
collateral layer it's massively
outperformed
everything so it's been a phenomenally
good asset even with these massive draw
Downs on Route we have enormous draw
Downs
monstrous and still it's the best
performing asset in all recorded history
almost on any time Horizon
so it makes it very difficult to
allocate any money in anything
else um and that's why I've struggled I
just do every chart against Bitcoin or
every chart against the FED balance
sheet and try and say okay well what
goes up gold has actually gone down
versus the FED balance sheet I don't
think I think that's more of a temporary
State of Affairs than a permanent State
of Affairs again I'm actually not an
anti-gold person whatsoever I just think
when you've got technology plus gold
call it that as a narrative you're
always going to do better and in our job
to help people navigate this
journey if you're 65 years old go does a
great job for you if you're 35 year old
you ain't going to get anywhere you're
going to have to you have to gain wealth
not just protect wealth because you
don't have it when you're young and
that's the difference here the this is
the core difference to me is there's a
suitability factor for different types
of people and you're trying to solve
different
problems very well laid out uh Peter
what's your position how do you come to
your
worldview well I agree with r that
inflation is a is a problem
unfortunately it's the path of least
resistance for politicians to go down um
it's the way they finance their spending
it's the way they buy their own
reelection it's the way they avoid
having to be honest uh with the
electorate and tell them the truth about
um you know how broke they are and uh
it's really a hidden tax it's you know
it's instead of taking your money uh by
taxing you openly and directly or even
you know indirectly through a sales tax
they surreptitiously rob you of your
purchasing power by just creating money
out of thin air usually with a complicit
central bank and then they spend that
into
circulation and that drives up prices
whether it's Goods prices asset prices
uh but you know what's happen is the
value of each monetary unit is is going
down um as more of them are spent into
circulation and and that's going to
continue in fact that's going to
accelerate based on the F fiscal
predicament that we're in based on the
demographics uh certainly in the US we
have the baby boom I'm one of the
younger baby boomers born in 1963 1964
is the is the end of it uh but uh you
know I'm 60 I'm going to be 61 in March
right so I'm theoretically four years
away from cashing or collecting Social
Security um but you know there's a lot
of people in my
generation uh there's not a lot of
people in the generations that follow
with the ability to to make good on
these commitments so you know the Ponzi
is imploding uh so inflation is
basically you know that's what they're
going to do now I I think that they're
playing with fire here I think
politicians and Central Bankers probably
think they can control it uh and it
won't run away from them and and turn
potentially in a hyperinflation and I I
wouldn't be so sure I think a lot of
politicians have overestimated their
ability to keep that Genie uh anywhere
near the bottle once once it's once it's
out so I think there's a lot of
inflation and so it is a problem that
you need to deal with but I don't think
the solution is to invent a a
make-believe asset and then all pretend
that that makeb believe asset has value
because of some artificially imposed uh
constraint on Supply
uh and ignore the fact that there's an
unlimited number of other
cryptocurrencies uh that exist that you
know for most practical purposes are
actually better than Bitcoin uh they're
cheaper to use they're faster to use to
the extent that you want to use Bitcoin
which nobody does because it's not a
very good uh
cryptocurrency um I mean it's certainly
uh not a store value but it's not a good
medium of exchange or unit of account I
mean there are plenty of other cryptos
that actually fit that bill better to
the extent that somebody wanted to use
them uh for that purpose but they don't
I mean everybody uses a crypto to gamble
I mean that's uh the the main use case
and in fact uh that's what's happening
now with these ETFs the ETFs have simply
provided yet another way to gamble on on
bitcoin and it's it's ironic now you
have all these people buying Bitcoin
through a third- party custodian who's
charging a fee I mean you're getting
everybody back into the very Financial
system that they were supposed to be
leaving and I keep hearing these people
on television saying well you know it's
so hard to buy Bitcoin it's so difficult
and this makes it easy now everybody can
buy it I thought everybody could buy it
before the beauty of Bitcoin was
supposed to be it was so simple and easy
you didn't need a third party you didn't
need a custodian you didn't need Service
uh uh a service uh storage charges I
mean so it's all they're doing is now
trying to convince Wall Street to buy
this asset uh which has no fundamental
value has no income has you know no
earnings no nothing but as long as we
keep buying it and no nobody sells it
well the price will keep going up and we
can all operate under the delusion that
we're getting rich as long as nobody
tries to get out and everybody keeps
pretending that they've got all this
money because on paper you know uh
they've got something but you know it's
going to be very different when people
try to get out and I think uh it's going
to be very noticeable with these uh uh
Bitcoin ETFs because I think a lot of
the money that's going into the
ETFs uh is is is is trading money I
think a lot of of it came out of gold
stocks and if you look at what's
happened in the last week or two gold
stocks have been clobbered even though
the price of gold is unchanged to
slightly higher you've seen 10 20% drops
in big gold stocks uh I think maybe
they've been selling them uh to put
money into into Bitcoin ETFs uh but I
don't think that money is married to
those ETFs I think it's there for a
trade a lot of people might even have
stops beneath the market looking to get
out if the market turns uh but I think
people are going to find it's a lot
easier to get money into these ETFs than
to get it out I it's just going to go to
money Heaven because you know when when
we've had these big drops in Bitcoin
before um you know what tends to happen
to stabilize the market is all of a
sudden there's a bunch of tethers out
there and uh and and and Bitcoin gets
bought uh using you know fake dollars
but when these ETFs when people who own
the ETFs sell now the ETFs take the
Bitcoin that they own and they sell them
on the market they can't they can't get
tether they need real actual dollars
uh to to return uh they can't send the
the the shareholders tether uh so there
could be just a real vacuum uh you saw
like a little blip yesterday I think
Bitcoin dropped
from uh 63,000 or 60 yeah 64,000
whatever it was to under $59,000
$5,000 in I don't know like 30 seconds
uh and you know came back but I mean it
could drop a lot more than that in 30
seconds or a minute and I think it will
uh maybe there's some trouble we'll see
a lot of these Bitcoin mining stocks in
the last couple days have been clobbered
I don't know you know what's special
about them but they've dropped
substantially in the last couple of days
uh so we're starting to see some some
resistance here and some of these names
uh buckling uh but you know this is just
to me it's a speculative uh Mania uh and
this is not the answer to the problem
people are creating a whole different
problem uh uh with the with these uh
crypto uh tokens so I if oh I wanted to
say so it's not like I don't I'm anti-
crypto or I don't see value in crypto it
depends on what you're talking about so
if you're talking about blockchain if
you're talking about the potential to
use a
cryptocurrency uh actually as a medium
exchange and a unit of account which
would mean it would be tied to something
with value a stable coin uh obviously if
you if you tie it to something like the
dollar or the Euro you don't have the
real long-term store value you don't
have an inflation head but you do have a
Medi of exchange you have a unit of
account I think the the ideal marriage
uh is between gold and blockchain if you
tokenize gold and put it on a blockchain
uh you can have a unit of uh a medium of
exchange and a unit of account but you
actually have a real store value you
have something that is a superior uh
monetary instrument to any of the Fiat
currencies that are out there and it's
far superior to to bitcoin because once
you tokenize gold uh and put on a
blockchain the transactions are faster
and cheaper than the transactions with
Bitcoin but you have a real commodity
that can store value see when when
people try to say well Bitcoin is you
know yeah it doesn't work as a currency
but it's a great store of value it's a
lousy store of value because there's no
value you have to have value before you
can store value Bitcoin has a price and
people confuse price with value you can
put a price on anything doesn't mean it
has any value it just means that
somebody wants to buy it uh but they may
want to buy it for all sorts of reasons
people want to buy Bitcoin because they
think it's going to keep going up it's
the greater fool Theory I'm going to buy
it because somebody else will buy it and
pay more uh but that doesn't work
eventually it collapses and and you know
you can't store price you can you can
store value uh and sometimes price can
be very low and there could be good
buying opportunities you can get a good
deal if something of value has a low
price because of the the market at that
moment uh but but Bitcoin only has price
it has no value um and so it can't be a
store value and just because some people
bought it and got rich and and and you
know Ral maybe made a lot of money in
Bitcoin I mean I know a lot of people
who did um I'm here in Puerto Rico with
a lot of Bitcoin whales there are a lot
of guys here that got into Bitcoin ether
or you name it uh early on and yeah they
made a great trade they got into it when
nobody was buying it uh they they put a
big you know money on it and uh it it
went way up but you know the majority of
the people who own Bitcoin are not
making a lot of money in Bitcoin I mean
Bitcoin yeah it's back up to 60,000 but
it was at 6,000 three years ago you know
it's had a roller coaster it went down
below 20,000 now it's back up it's it's
kind of been moving sideways uh over the
last few years so it hasn't you know
done anything as far as kept up with
inflation over that time period yeah if
you bought it a year ago on after it
dropped and you sell it now you have a
you have a good trade uh but if you
wrote it all the way down and all the
way back up you haven't made anything
and of course if you don't sell it and
it goes right back down and you know
there's no way to know let's say Bitcoin
collapses again from the 60,000 level
just like it did a few years ago it may
not stop at you know 19,000 what if it
goes to 10,000 or 5,000 who the hell
knows how low the next drop is going to
be and and maybe after that happens they
manage to get the get the price back up
again and then it collapses and
eventually you know it collapses and
never comes back um so I I think you
know people who are getting out of the
dollar or the Euro and and buying
Bitcoin have jumped out of the frying
pan into the fire I mean so you don't
have to reinvent the wheel if you want
to get out of Fiat currencies uh you can
own gold uh but you could also own other
good inflation hedge assets real assets
you know most of my money is isn't in
Gold either I have actually now I put a
lot more money into gold stocks
personally in the last week because I
just thought they were giving them away
and so I I wanted to buy more um but I
have a lot of assets around the world
that I own I own shares of businesses
that generate a lot of income uh selling
products providing services that that
people really need and that people will
pay higher prices to get and those
companies pay me lots of dividends and
as inflation uh you know drives up
prices uh those compan
increase their prices and pay me higher
dividends and I own real assets that are
that are not losing value I own the
property the plant and the equipment you
know the IP uh whatever these companies
own that are tangible real assets if I'm
a shareholder I own a piece of those
real assets and you can own uh you know
real estate you know farmland or you
know land where you know you can grow
trees or mine Metals you know real land
productive land or you can have you know
lands with factories on them or or
things like that uh people own uh you
know residential real estate now or
commercial real estate depending on
where that is uh some of these markets
could could have uh have some problems
uh in the near term uh but you know real
assets are something that you want to
own when inflation is uh is the concern
and likely to get worse you don't want
to own paper you don't want to own uh
Bank deposits you don't want to own
annuities you know things with a fixed
income cash value and an insurance
policy um you know munity bonds these
are all the things that lose value
inflation taxes those those assets and
what inflation really does is it
transfers wealth from
debtors uh from creditors rather to
debtors so the debtors get their debts
wiped out and the creditors see their
their assets wiped out their savings and
you know the the biggest dtor in the
history of the world maybe even the
history of the universe as far as I know
is the United States government and so
the United States government is the main
beneficiary of inflation and and clearly
they're going to create it they they
create inflation because it it suits
their purposes uh the only problem for
them now is they've got this national
debt with such a short maturity that
they're in the predicament where you
know if interest rates go up which they
should uh they're in you know in a in a
huge problem because they can't pay
which means the FED has to play an even
important mon role in monetizing that
debt which is why the risk of infl
running away is so great so we're
definitely going to go down the Where Do
We Go From Here debt how this is all
going to play out but I want to keep the
um the the first Collision Point here in
Focus which is is Bitcoin the right
answer to the problem you guys both seem
to agree on the problem we're printing
money we're creating inflation uh you've
got to find a safe haven where do you go
from there um so my question is always
is a big part of the appeal of of
Bitcoin and cryptocurrency in general
simply the volatility and this is a
culture that is responding by becoming
gamblers or is the appeal of Bitcoin
specifically is this a change in the
frame of reference of the Old Guard that
looks at gold which is the result of an
exploding star literally and so hey
you're not going to come by any more of
that very easily and so that's why all
cultures over time have gravitated
towards that provably scarce resource
um so is is volatility the thing and one
way to put our finger on whether that is
what is driving um bitcoin's adoption or
not R would be a question for you which
is why didn't
Satoshi tokenize gold and make that
Bitcoin why didn't he back it by
anything other than thermodynamics well
we kind of have a tokenized gold and it
[__] everything up it's called the
Futures Market um that because
still gold is a very physical asset as
Peter rightly says and to move it around
the world is difficult so you're moving
claims around the world even on
blockchain now as far as I'm aware the
maau exchange for gold is going to
tokenize there's a bunch of people
tokenizing gold we've seen gold things
great it's maybe a more efficient
settlement rail or an ownership rail um
but it's not instant transfer of the
actual asset itself if I transfer you a
Bitcoin it goes straight into your
Ledger wallet let's say and you own it
it's yours it's self-
custody gold is more difficult to self
custody just because of its size now
many people around the world do self
custody their gold and that's fine too
again I don't have an issue but in a
world of 8 billion people where we live
on the internet it actually is nice to
have an asset and Peter's absolutely
right we've meaned a trillion dollar
currency into
existence we've meaned it
it's just human
narrative but guess what so is gold so
is everything that we do including
religion everything is a meme how often
are you checking your credit score
afraid of identity theft or account
breaches we all use the internet every
single day for important things like
Personal Banking and remote work so why
not protect yourself with our sponsor
Aura Aura is an all-in-one cyber
security service that keeps you safe
online Aura identifies data Brokers
exposing your info and submits opt out
requests on your behalf Ora also
monitors your credit tracks your
passwords for data breaches and secures
your online activity with VPN and anti
malware protection you can try Aura for
free for 2 weeks by clicking the link in
the description or scanning the QR code
so memetics rule the entire way that
humans understand the world around them
and because we believe something to be
true it is true to us so we believe that
this digital asset that is scarce is
valuable Peter's right there are other
blockchains that are much more effective
and by owning those cryptocurrencies
they're not currencies and this
confusion over there's all these
cryptocurrencies are all competing
against Bitcoin they're not these are
networks where you own a tokenized part
of a network and the network generates
fees you make money it's like owning
shares essentially but somewhat
different Bitcoin itself is because we
believe it to be true it has the sorts
of properties that we as humans think of
as holding
value as does gold certain other things
don't paper physically doesn't right
even paper money but paper itself it
destroys copper overtime destroys silver
over time erodes but gold doesn't so
gold has this long-term value in a
digital world those properties have been
mimicked but even honed down to a way
that everything is knowable in
Gold well when the price is high enough
the gold price becomes cyclical because
the miners will find new ways of getting
gold out of the ground and so Supply
adjusts and brings down price which is
fine in Bitcoin you can't do it so it's
really a function of demand in
everything in Bitcoin so it's the
function of how many people believe this
to be true that this asset has value and
when you go back and say well people
shouldn't do this
nobody has the right to tell people what
they should or should not
do this is the best performing asset the
world has ever seen it is up 6 million
per. since we first put it on real
Vision in 2013 2014 it's up
380,000
wow you know it if if Bitcoin is a
thousand 10 years from now you could
still make the argument it's the best
performing asset in the world if you
want to start from that point in time so
it doesn't matter the people didn't own
it when it was pennies that's a little
bit disingenuous because it actually is
the best performing asset in the world
on a 10e 5e four year threee 2ye oneyear
basis Well it can't be on a three-year
basis because it's about unchanged right
it was at it was at six it was over it's
all it's record taking the alltime high
as the yard stick right three years ago
was March 20 uh was March
2021 it was much lower well when did it
hit 60 65 69,000 when was that like
November 2021 all right so from from
that point but yeah I made a big rally
it just it's Bitcoin is up 40% in the
last few weeks so obviously everything
looks like a valley when you're up on
this hill question is has Bitcoin
performed very well over it's time
lifetime the answer
is provably mathematically yes that's
okay doesn't mean you have to like it
doesn't mean you have to like it but
it's provenly gone up more than any
other asset look let's see what happens
when the people who own it want to get
rid of it and do something with it it's
been around a couple points I want to
make it's been around 14 years we've
gone through four Cycles where it's gone
down
90% and it still is the best performing
asset so your oh my God scenario goes
down 90% I've gone through three of
those myself it doesn't it still doesn't
stop all right well you're going to go
through another one and it may not come
back next time but the point I want to
make a couple of points that address
what you said so I I I I agree that it
is easier to store Bitcoin I don't know
obviously we don't need these ETFs
that's just the manufacturer to try to
pump up demand but yes it's easy to
store your Bitcoin relative to Gold but
the difference is when you're storing
gold you're storing something and so
since you have something it takes some
effort to to to to store it when you're
storing Bitcoin you're storing nothing
so what good is the fact that it's easy
to store nothing yes I've got a very
safe secure supply of nothing and
Bitcoin though as long as people think
it's going to go up as long as they
maintain that delusion and more people
want to buy it sure it will have a price
and if enough people don't sell it then
some people can't right there are always
going to be some people who that is the
nature of all Investments no it's not no
it's not when you talk about gold gold
is an actual commodity that is used does
what in industry it's used
proper what share of gold usage of gold
that's mined is actually used in
manufacturing no about half of it is
used in jewelry that's jewelry that's
just storing of gold on your physical
body how much is actually used no that's
used I got a gold watch here I didn't I
didn't buy a tin watch and why did you
buy a gold watch because you want to
wear gold because it's no I can go
swimming with theck watch it doesn't
rust it looks beautiful it lasts Scrat
it scratches cuz it's gold guys let me
jump in here I want to ask a very
pointed question on that fact so gold if
half of it is being used for jewelry I
think that's a very valid point my
question is how would you feel if
somebody were wearing their crypto punk
as a piece of jewelry but they're not
wearing their Bitcoin they're they're
wearing something that has Bitcoin
written on it there you don't need the
Bitcoin
if you want a gold watch you got to have
gold actually that's not true Peter
because if you have an inscription on
bitcoin like a Bitcoin ordinal which is
an nft yes I know what those are I
created some myself and they are stored
on the blockchain you actually need
Bitcoin for it to exist yes you need a
Satoshi yes you when you look on Twitter
I have my crypto Punk that actually is
also a claim on ethereum yeah all right
you know but it's it's it's it's all
part of the speculation of Bitcoin it's
not about wearing your your your jewelry
but again gold gold is a conductor of
electricity it is the best conductor we
know it's the best conductor we have
it's used for all sorts of things and
electronics it's used in medicine it's
used in dentistry it would be used more
if the price was lower but the price is
high but the reason that the price is
high is when you own gold you are
storing the future use of that gold a
thousand years from now somebody could
use that gold to contuct electricity you
don't know what they're going to use it
for I I talked about this this telescope
that we sent into space this Hubble
telescope and they had to coat these
huge mirrors with gold now that was very
expensive they didn't want to coat it
with gold but that was the only metal
that was going to work so they they had
to buy gold to to coat these these these
mirrors so when you own gold you own all
those properties those properties are
not going to go away over time and
you're storing them for future use
Bitcoin doesn't have anything that
anybody uses for anything I mean as long
as people want to gamble on it uh
there's a price but people don't have to
buy gold uh for money there's always
going to be people who need gold in
Industry who are going to be buying it
and central banks yes central banks buy
it as a monetary asset because they need
something to back up their Fiat they
can't just back up one currency with
another currency they need something
real so central banks have been buying
more and more gold uh they have a lot
more that they need to buy uh because
their reserves are still too low but you
don't have that with Bitcoin you don't
have industrial demand you don't have
Central Bank demand you don't have
jewelry demand you just have speculative
demand and that's very fickle yeah if
the Market's going up the speculators
will buy starts going down they're going
to want to get out uh but eventually the
story blows up you know people stop
believing in the fairy tale you know you
talk about all these young kids uh that
think they've reinvented the wheel and
think that they know more than their
parents or the grandparents you know
it's like look you know little kids
believe in all sorts of things they
believe in the tooth fairy they believe
in the Easter Bunny and and Santa Claus
you know but they don't believe in these
things for their whole lives as they get
older uh they they start to uh see the
truth and I think the same thing is
going to happen with with Bitcoin uh
people are going to grow up and they're
going to learn from the mistakes of
their youth really fast I want to jump
in here I don't want to just move past
this idea of uh that gold would be used
more if the price were lower but the
price isn't lower why is the price lower
because it's really thought of as a
store of value as a flex so store of
value and flex seem to be the thing that
actually drive the value of gold um and
I think I have a hypothesis that the
core thing that drives the difference
between you two as archetypes is a
belief that either digital things are
real or digital Things Are are not real
and if you believe like I do um that the
future of the world is more digital
where people will spend more of their
lives in the digital world where I heard
the story of a kid U their parent came
to them and said why do you want a
fortnite skin those aren't real and the
kid was befuddled they had no idea what
the parent meant by it's not real yeah
but that that that argument is is really
a straw man because I believe in digital
things uh like you know music I Len I I
don't have to go out and buy a a record
I can can listen to music digitally uh
there are a lot of things that I can do
digitally but just because I believe in
digital that doesn't mean that I can eat
digital food right food can't be digital
because I'll die if the only thing I eat
is digital food I'm not going to get
enough calories and I'm going to die I
need actual food I can't replace food
with a digital uh image and that's the
same thing with gold gold is a real
metal digital gold Is Not Gold it's
nothing now yes if I want to you know
have a character and I want him to have
all kinds of gold fake gold jewelry in
some video game sure but I mean it's not
worth that much because you could
replicate it in definitely you don't
need actual gold to have an image of
gold on a computer screen um you know
that's why you know for a while they had
people that were buying digital real
estate oh I got beachfront property well
who cares about beachfront property in a
computer game there's an Unlimited
Supply of that I mean if you want an
actual beachfront property in the
physical world that's more scarce than a
a a a digital Beach you know that your
avatar can can can can lie on uh so it's
very different it's not like I I'm not
into technology sure I I I can
appreciate it but I can't live in a
digital house I can't eat digital food
and we can't have digital gold Gold's
got to be real in order for it to be
gold and do the things that gold does so
here's an interesting thing Tom is is in
a digital world we talked about and
rightly as you rightly say every day is
more digital than the last right that is
a endless Trend that we are
seeing and in a digital world we can
make infinite amounts of anything
digital and we've seen that so stuff
like email has gone from being something
we paid for to something that's free
Cloud computes everything compute itself
is EXP exponentially declining in cost
because everything digital almost goes
to zero because you can make infinite
amounts so that's a real problem in a
digital world until the invention of
blockchain which creates digital
scarcity that's a
mathematical way to to create scarcity
so scarcity is the asset that is why
gold is valuable it is a scarce asset
that's why silver is less valuable than
gold there is more silver there's plenty
of silver that's why copper is less
valuable than gold scarcity is what we
as humans value and in a digital world
where everything can be created
infinitely like food in the physical
world what you need to maintain value is
something and that's what blockchain did
so that's why younger Generations who
live more in the digital world say okay
this is great because I'm living in this
digital world and I want it
interchangeable with my physical world
and therefore I'm happy that digital
assets have value and I can think of
Bitcoin is the foundational value layer
for all of this and that makes sense
being scarce is not enough you have to
be scarce and you have to have valuable
properties that that people want and so
gold has very valuable metallic
properties it's the most useful metal on
the periodic table and yeah there's not
a lot of it so it's something that we
need has it's very useful yet it's
scarce so it's going to have a high
price I mean something like air we all
need air right air is very valuable
without air we die but there's so much
of it it doesn't have a high price
because there's there's a lot of air in
the atmosphere as opposed to how much
gold there is in the ground so you could
say yes Bitcoin is scarce but it doesn't
have any value and so there could be one
Bitcoin if nobody wants it then it's
worthless right now yes people want the
21 million Bitcoin but I'd rather talk
about the 2.1 quadrillion Satoshi
because when you talk about gold in
order to actually do something with gold
you need a certain quantity of gold
right a little speck of it isn't going
to do anything you need a particular
quantity to do a job but with Bitcoin
you know whether I have an entire
Bitcoin or one Satoshi doesn't matter I
can't I I I can't do any more with a
Bitcoin than with a Satoshi because I
can't do anything with either one and
and so they is 21 quadrillion Satoshi so
there's plenty of Satoshi to go around
everybody can have a few hundred
thousand of these things uh on the
planet Earth but not only is there an
unlimited supply of of or of or there's
a limited supply of these Satoshi
there's an unlimited supply of other
crypto tokens that can be created more
than 20,000 have already been created in
theory 200,000 2 million can be created
that have proper properties that are
similar to or even improve on the
properties of Bitcoin uh and so so what
I mean what is value about yeah people
it's all the rage now people are talking
about it but in a 100 years will anybody
even remember uh what Bitcoin was I mean
most people probably won't know about it
I mean how many people even know about
you know tulip Mania or stuff like that
that happened in the past or Beanie
Babies I mean these things are like fads
they come and they go I mean some people
may study it if they study
history uh but to think that in 100
years uh anyone's even going to be be be
thinking about Bitcoin what gives you
the confidence to say you're so sure
what would say make you say you know
what I don't know this is interesting
because it's obviously obviously people
like it it attracts a lot of investors a
lot of smart people if you go and see
Dan mohead or Dan tapiero do you say
listen guys you guys are morons you're
just believing in so you wouldn't say
that
you wouldn't well look there are a lot
of people a lot of people on Wall Street
have done foolish things in my lifetime
whether it
wascs uh subprime mortgages I mean
people were doing a lot of foolish
things with their money and and they
lost it uh and I know Wall Street has a
a tendency just to try to make money off
of any fat I mean whatever's popular you
know there's an expression feed the
Ducks while they're quacking and that's
what Wall Street does it's like whatever
the public wants they Supply it and they
take a fee and and so if they could get
a lot of interest in Bitcoin then
they're going to create these products
and they're going to make it so that uh
people can trade they don't care they're
operating casinos they're they're
they're making they're making money but
what you should think about is not okay
maybe I'm wrong maybe there's a slim
chance that I'm wrong but there's a slim
chance that you're right I mean you're
betting on a long shot the odds are it's
not going to work right so it's it's a
real long shot that that that that this
project is actually going to succeed
right would you be less concerned about
the whole thing if gold had actually
gone up no I mean look I gold has gone
up the pro so gold Min for example gold
mining equities have gone nowhere in 45
years well gold mining equities are not
gold gold mining equities are not gold
so gold gold in the last 100 years has
gone up 100 fold so the dollar has lost
99% of its value and even if you go back
to the year 2000 gold has gone from
under 300 to over 2,000 in the last 20
years so it's just that during the last
10 11 years where Bitcoin has been on
the scene gold has been very stable
while Bitcoin has gone way up that
that's in your your reference point
let's assume you were
less fixed on your view and you saw this
new thing and saw that people also
thought of it in the same kind of way
that that people thought about gold and
doesn't it make you go you know that's
fascinating I wonder if this this really
could work in a digital age but instead
you'll say no no chance they shouldn't
buy it they're all idiots what makes you
so sure like I would never say about
gold that's stupid I would say I
understand it of course gold is
interesting but it's it's a weird way to
approach it is here is literally tens of
Millions if not hundreds of millions of
people owning something and you're
saying they're all morons I'm
right regardless of the performance of 6
million per it's all just Beanie Babies
is that really what you think I'm not
saying they're all morons there are
people that are trading it because it's
going up and they think they'll get out
before the Music Stops and maybe they
will I me you know how how long does
this go on for I mean we're 14 years in
Peter we're 14 years in you're saying is
why don't I why don't I why don't I
accept that nothing is something why
don't I believe in this fantasy like
everybody else why am I the sane person
you know when you have all these insane
people you should be asking yourself is
why do I believe this nonsense that you
know I mean there are other smart people
I'm not the only person I can hold two
competing ideas in my head at all times
and it's a probabilistic game it's not
that I don't understand Bitcoin I
understand it that's why I know it's
worthless but there are plenty of other
smart people who look at it the exact
same way as me I'm going to jump in
really fast because the only way forward
is to identify the base assumptions that
Drive Your guys' World Views so as we go
through this uh Peter what comes to the
Forefront from you is that the belief
system is if something doesn't have
intrinsic value then it all it is is
gambling do you agree with that
statement around your beliefs if it
doesn't have intrinsic value it's not
going to to be money you know and and
now currency is a money substitute and
currency doesn't have any intrinsic
value unless it's back by gold or some
something else but then it that its
value is derived from what backs it up
but a Fiat currencies right which we use
now have no intrinsic value but they
have uh governments behind them uh they
have laws that uh you know make them
legal tender they have a government that
demands payment of taxes in that
currency so you can have a a Fiat system
that will work it won't work as good as
a as an honest system based on gold but
it can it can work temporarily and and
sometimes temporarily can be a long time
but my my my premise is that if Bitcoin
doesn't have an actual use
Beyond uh my giving it to somebody else
or selling it to somebody else whatever
other than as a uh as a as a potential
Exchange
if its only us as I can buy it and sell
it to somebody else who buys it and
sells it to somebody else it's a Ponzi
it's a PID it's a chain letter there are
a lot of ways to describe what this is
and they've been doing this for hundreds
of years right it's not new all that's
new is the digital part but all the all
the other um uh factors have have been
tried and you know over and over again
it's just a modern version of this and
it's going to end and the same way that
in all these prior uh pyramid schemes
have fallen apart okay so I'll say it a
different way uh because I feel like I
understand your beliefs but I'm having a
hard time getting you to agree that I
understand um so gold is back stop by
the fact that it can be used by other
things therefore it is the wiser um
store of value because the price is
never going to fall below what uh its
usefulness in the real world is well
yeah gold is is a commodity like wheat
like oil like corn uh like
cotton uh and people need gold just like
they need these other Commodities the
difference is you know gold is a better
commodity to store because it doesn't
tarnish it doesn't rot it doesn't Decay
uh and it's relatively easy to store I
mean it's certainly a lot easier to
store uh gold than than than cattle you
know or oil uh you know of all the
Commodities that you could choose to
store gold is the easiest and so that's
one of the reasons that that that that
we we use it now is it easier to store
Bitcoin yes but then again you give up
the fact that you're storing something
you're storing nothing right what I'm
what I'm trying to get to is the core of
why R I think rightly from a just
understand the world I'm not saying
who's right or wrong I'm just saying to
understand the world uh R's reaction
makes sense if you believe that belief
in the item the the mimetic ability to
transfer the belief in the item is is
the thing that matters and I think R
tell me if I'm wrong but that you
believe Gold's value is
driven in the vast majority by the mimic
belief that gold is a great way to store
value well no it's it's its value is
derived from its properties but I I I
agree that that that Bitcoin Bitcoin is
purely a function of your belief of
confidence it's a giant game as long as
we all believe it has value uh then it
can have a price and people will want it
but the question is can you put your
faith in that confidence enduring over
time that in the future people will be
just as infatuated and and hold these
beliefs just as strongly in the future
and I think the far off into the future
you want to extrapolate the harder it is
uh to to to believe that that will will
be the case you know tomorrow will
people stop believing in Bitcoin
tomorrow probably not in 6 months well
probably not but in 10 years in 100
years the further you go out at some
point yeah what's what's the odds and so
you can't be a store of value because at
any point in the future there could be
absolutely no confidence whatsoever in
Bitcoin you know it's you
know it's to me it's more of a fat yes
people people are are infatuated with it
now because it's gone up people have
gotten rich and there's all this money
being pumped into it um but who's to say
that that's going to be the case in the
future I think a lot of money is going
to be lost in Bitcoin in fact you know
far more people are going to lose money
in Bitcoin than than have made money in
Bitcoin that is very possible so what I
I want to be clear what I'm trying to do
right now is simply State what you guys
believe to be true not convince you of
anything else because uh we are in a
battle for ideas in the greater world
and so I want people to understand the
base assumptions that drive your guys'
worldview so they can form their own uh
Peter I feel very confident in saying
that you believe the reason that gold
has value is because it has intrinsic
physical properties that people can use
and that makes it valuable uh and so
that becomes a game of I don't need
people to believe so even if belief
drives a certain amount of this it it
really has usefulness and that is ground
Truth for Peter shiff and gold the
properties don't always have to be
physical they could be intangible right
you know there's a value there uh so I'm
not I'm not against agreed intangible uh
assets uh you know okay perfect so now
on the Bitcoin side on Ral your argument
and take this up and tell me if I'm
wrong is that we are entering a phase of
perception where the mimetic value the
belief that computers for instance are
the future it's a Bedrock that people
grow up with that a certain subset of
the world and I actually put myself in
this so I don't have to project into
other people um that they believe that
the thermodynamics that you can
represent on the blockchain to produce
the Bitcoin is is real is as real as an
exploding star therefore all that's
needed is the
mimetic spread of that belief and if
that belief takes hold and it one
hypothesis I don't know that this is
true but one hypothesis about why gold
is not going up in this time of massive
inflation and uncertainty but Bitcoin is
despite volatility is that that belief
is becoming more and more common now who
ends up being right on a long enough
timeline financially we will get to but
I just want to lay out and R please tell
me if you disagreed with what I just
said that seems to be the set table just
so we clarify something just just using
technology chat GPT 4 um and the world
gold Council 10 7 and a half to 10% of
gold Supply every year is used for use
so 90% is
mimetics to 92 and a half% it's we
believe it to be
so okay so that is an element of
humanity but what you're touching on is
okay the technology itself there are
some elements of that if we believe it's
scarce enough we can attach a value to
it that's memetics there is also the
elements of okay the Bitcoin mining
itself has
created opportunities so for example we
are seeing in the Middle East using gas
flare offs which is wasted energy
reusing the energy to
create tokens which then are used to
release that we're seeing it with low
balancing so there's an element of it's
a way of sharing electricity
in a world that doesn't do that very
easily but it's also something more the
physical property here is actually the
physical property of the blockchain
itself the reason this goes up so fast
is not because of mania it's because
it's an adoption of a technology it's
meal law so what you're finding is
networks as they gain adoption price
gets a bit crazy now in 20 years time
will bitcoin price be as crazy highly
unlikely because it gets to maturity and
it looks more like a mature asset so
people get confused what we're doing
here is saying what bitcoin's price is
doing is saying yes there's the element
of mimetics it has this scarce value
nothing in the digital world has
scarcity so this is interesting for
Humanity it's not proven it's not had a
thousand years of History it's
interesting it also has interesting
properties in how it can reuse wasted
energy or rebalance energy loads okay
that's interesting but also what is the
future expected value of the blockchain
itself now we may say today or we would
have said a year ago well Bitcoin
blockchain is not very useful but now
we've started to see these ordinals and
inscriptions which is using the
blockchain for other things we're seeing
other use cases of layer 2os built on
bitcoin there's more incentivization in
a network the more people that that
invest in it or join it to create other
use ches I.E there's money around
there's money to do stuff with it so we
don't know what the future of the
Bitcoin blockchain is but if enough
money is attracted to it it will create
other use cases because it's a network
with a lot of people on it so Network
value is a weird thing for somebody who
doesn't live in the digital world in the
digital world that's what's created all
the value in Amazon Google Apple
Facebook it's what's creating the
digital uh the the the value in Tesla
it's what the value is in chat GPT it's
Network effects so we've got this
incredible asset which has these scarce
properties that solves a problem we
don't have that we had in the digital
world it has some physical properties
because what we can do with electricity
and how it's mined and then it has the
future expected value of the
network that to me makes it a very
interesting asset now the question is
does it exist in 50 years time 100 years
time I don't know no nobody knows would
humans use gold in a hundred years time
nobody knows just because they use gold
yesterday doesn't mean they use gold
tomorrow so everything changes people
have used carry shells they've used
Stone they've used all sorts of things
as a store of value bushels of wheat
that was a very common sort of value
back in Egyptian times so take nothing
for granted but observe when new things
are happening and we're actually seeing
people using these things in different
and unique ways you pay attention and
it's driving a lot of
value that for me is enough because
we're getting two elements here we're
getting this the store of value plus the
adoption of this technology that's
driving it is for you um the volatility
of the asset the mimetic belief is that
what makes this interesting to you or
are you uh Bitcoin Maxi who really
believes this needs to replace physical
gold for reasons of
anti-seizure um better ability to store
ownership Etc so I believe in the latter
but that is a future we're not there
yet and I'm an investor at core my job
it's really you know to also make money
out of Trends I'm trying trying to
better my future as we all are and so
yes I believe in the philosophy that's
how I got into it I saw that this was
probably a better answer for many of the
issues within the financial system not
for gold per se gold is fine it will
continue being gold I have no issue with
that but it just seemed to me that this
was something
that was going to solve the
philosophical and the real problems of
the financial system the real core of it
who own what in an overly indebted
Society it's going to really do
something there and so if I can make
money out of a
solution well of course I will so it's
both but really you know how much longer
am I on this planet I'm 56 years old
maybe I live for 50 years if I'm super
lucky what is my job my job is yes if I
think this technology is a good thing
for Humanity I will help promote it the
best I can but it's also my own life and
my family's life and if I think it
has investment properties that
outperform other assets of course I'll
invest in it even with the volatility
because risk
adjusted even if you take from draw down
adjusted volatility adjusted whatever
ratio still the best risk adjusted
reward of any asset we've ever seen
Fidelity produced this fabulous chart
which is like it's a Dot Plot chart of
risk adjusted returns for all of these
assets and there's like gold and and
NASDAQ looks really quite good and Etc
right they're all clustered and there's
a blank sheet of paper and then
somewhere up there in the far right is
Bitcoin the the risk adjusted return is
alien we have never seen anything like
this so regardless of what people say
about the volatility everything else the
risk adjusted return is like an alien
asset we've never had anything like this
which is why to me when I simplify
everything down I just say this is the
best macro opportunity of all time we
got the best risk adjusted return asset
that has the highest performance of any
asset in history it's being adopted
you're looking in the rearview mirror it
may not look that way in the future in
fact it's more likely to revert to the
mean or way below the mean seems like if
it's gone up so much in the past there's
a lot of risk that it's going to go down
I think you're ignoring that um you see
all of these like NASDAQ and you're
probably a bear of the NASDAQ too but
all of these things are secular Trends
in a logarithmic chart because they're
they're they're secular Trends they're
not cyclical this is not the commodity
world around long enough to be a secular
anything it's been around for 12 13
years and and really it's been around
you know in the in the eye of investors
for a much shorter time period maybe
five years I mean I I've I've been
investing since 20 2 so I'm 12 years
into this yeah yeah you but most Wall
Street hasn't been into it that long
they they they got they got into it
really you know 2,000 time frame around
there you know after it really went up
they kind of got interested in it uh
they weren't looking at it back then
well that makes me even more bullish
right that makes me even more bullish if
they haven't really adopted it yet so
therefore they it what do you mean
they're in it like got all these ETFs
now they're in it they've been promoting
it they've been touting it uh there's
been Bitcoin commercials now for years I
mean the top advertisers on cable TV are
crypto companies I mean they're pumping
and pumping and pumping and pumping and
spending a lot of money to try to con
the public into buying this stuff uh and
so you know they've suckered a lot of
people in you know but that there's a
limit to how much longer they're going
to be able to do it you you can't do it
forever the bottom is going to drop out
you
know and as far as the NASDAQ look you
know yeah I mean there's a lot of
liquidity there's a lot of inflation
it's been driving a tech stocks higher
I'm not sure these stocks I mean I think
the market could go up because I think
the dollar is going to go down but at
least in the tech stocks you know a lot
of these companies are real businesses
they may be overvalued but they have
some value uh they're gener you know you
mentioned a lot of companies that you
say have networks like Tesla or apple
but they make a ton of money selling
products right they they you know I got
a lot of Apple products myself apple is
earning a lot of money you know you can
argue about what the price of the share
should be but you can't argue that
there's a valuable business there uh but
with Bitcoin you know there is no
business it's nothing it's like you know
in in in sales that you know they say
sell the the sizzle not the stake well
in Bitcoin there is no stake it's just
Sizzle it's so it's all being hyped up
yeah it's not certainly true because the
people who mine it get given block
rewards so they get well yeah if you're
mining it you make some money sure I'm
not talking about Bitcoin mining could
be profitable for now as long as I could
sell it above the cost of mining it but
that that's that's different but that
creates inic value selling Bitcoin it's
the same as is this see Peter it's the
same as all mining if the cost of
production is above the price of the
asset people don't
mine and so Supply is reduced or in this
case that the amount of hashing in the
network either the security of the
network gets when it comes to bitcoin
the supply has really is very little to
do with
because almost all the Bitcoin have
already been mined so the question is
with the 19 million odd Bitcoin that
exists right now forget about the couple
of million more that they could bring on
stream over the next few decades the
question is with the 19 million that
exists or however many haven't been
lost is do people want to hoard them or
do they want to sell them and if they
want to sell them is there enough new
demand to buy them if not the price
what happens if China sold its gold oh
the price crash happens if the FED sold
their gold but buy it somebody needs it
this is not an argument 10% of all gold
Supply is used for
industry so if a central bank comes in
and dumps their gold like the UK they
have dumped gold central banks have
dumped gold before what Happ to absorbed
in the market the price went
down and so maybe the price of Bitcoin
goes down when people sell it no [__]
that's what markets do until you find
the clearing price it's normal I don't
see why it has to go to zero you know
what one of the things that I've learned
you know over the years with Bitcoin is
it is like a religion and people believe
in it the way they believe in a religion
or a cult and when you get to that type
of mentality there's no rational
argument that you can make I can't I
can't logically try to tell somebody
that there's no God if they believe in a
God I mean it's a belief system that you
you have and it's almost impossible to
to entertain uh that you might be wrong
right so and then you know so you
believe in and believe in it I mean
there's nothing I can do about it I mean
uh and if if if you end up losing a lot
of money you lose a lot of money and and
the problem is you know some people that
lose a lot of money can't afford it the
best thing about Bitcoin is that most of
the people who are going to lose a lot
of money are young and they got plenty
of time to earn it back and it's going
to be a valuable lesson that people
learn that they can carry into their
older years
the memory of all the money they lost in
in Bitcoin could it possibly be you that
learns the lesson I don't think
so okay I mean May Maybe I'm Wrong maybe
Warren Buffett is wrong maybe a lot of
smart investors you know maybe we all
got it wrong and and and you guys got it
right I I don't think that's the case
but you know I suppose anything is
possible what would have to happen for
you guys to reverse your opinion so Ral
what would have to be true of Bitcoin
down to zero for 10 years 100 years
whatever before you give up Peter same
to you what what would have to be true
for you guys to reverse your opinion for
me simply if people stop using the
network if if there's less activity on
the network people start becoming
disinterested then it's shown that its
store of value principles erode it would
be the same with gold and that's one of
the reasons gold has been somewhat
lackluster because there's been less
adopters of gold in a new digital world
so it's not done as well as it would
have done historically in the kind of
debasement environment that we've had so
if I were to observe in Bitcoin itself
forget all the other crypto and I'm no
Bitcoin maximalist as you all know um if
we saw that people were using it less
there was less activity less value was
being transacted less new people were
joining you know the Bitcoin Network I
having wallets
then I would say you know what there's
something wrong here and is that
persistent over time if it's persistent
over time then the network may not work
and we've seen many of those things
happen in the past there's a possibility
that happens I don't think it's the
highest probability certainly not this
decade could it happen after that of
course possible now why don't you worry
about that during the bare markets
because so for example in 2022 was a
great example is um the market went down
70 odd per
75% the number of uh active uh wallets
in crypto went up 22% uh 42% so adoption
was still ongoing while price went down
activity was less but then we're seeing
okay so if we step back and we hear oh
governments are going to build on
blockchain Rails
cbdcs all the banks want to put assets
on blockchain
Rails we're hearing gaming companies
want to put these metaverse gaming
experiences on blockchain
Rails we're hearing I was at the world's
largest one of the world's largest
commodity trading firms in Switzerland
last week speaking to their uh one of
their senior a agricultural Commodities
physical Traders I'm like and she's an
investor in my digital asset um asset
management
company um and I'm like are you guys
using blockchain surely you should be
solving supply chain she goes oh we've
been using blockchain since
2021 so we are doing eight I think of
the world's largest agricultural
Commodities houses are putting their
letters of
credit their
shipping their um the the uh all of the
kind of Transit proofs the supply chain
and the settlement all on
blockchain so going back to your
question Tom when I see this and I see
the price of Bitcoin down 75% or the
whole crypto space down
80% you say I have to ask myself is
adoption
stopping or is just this a cyclical
Factor that's driven by the business
cycle and until I would see otherwise
unless these things go
away then I can only assume that
tomorrow is more digital than today and
tomorrow more people will use blockchain
technology than they did yesterday
simple as that Peter what would you have
to see for you to change your mind I
don't know it's going to be tough I mean
obviously it hasn't been changed yet I
mean I've been watching Bitcoin from a
few dollars a token to 60,000 right so
price obviously isn't going to do it um
you know the whole time I've been
observing Bitcoin and and and in
involved in interacting with the whole
community and I've seen it grow and I I
you know I've you know seen more and
more people uh you know believing in it
and and and speculating on it but what I
haven't seen is a use case you know
people make a big deal about oh Peter
Schiff you know shift gold we accept
Bitcoin well we started early on with uh
working with bit pay uh where we enable
people to take their Bitcoin through bit
pay and bit pay just lets you sell your
Bitcoin kind of point of sale and get
dollars to buy gold uh but I I I I I
haven't seen any real increase it's a
tiny part of our business every once in
a while somebody buys gold with with
Bitcoin uh but they don't actually buy
it with Bitcoin they sell the Bitcoin
and then they buy the goal with dollars
but you know I remember back in 2017
when Bitcoin kind of popped on
everybody's radar for the first time
because it kind of went from obscurity
and it had that big run to 20,000 from
you know under a thousand all of a
sudden people started talking about it a
lot of companies started to announce oh
we're going to we're going to sell
products in Bitcoin we're going to
accept Bitcoin and there was like a rush
of that and that all went away I mean
nobody today is talking about how
they're taking Bitcoin I mean the only
company AMC the movie the the the meme
stop for a while stock they they they
said oh we're going to take Bitcoin at
our theaters just part of the the Mania
you know that stock is down like 99% you
know since that I got hyped up uh uh
Elon Musk uh announced at one point he
was going to sell cars for Bitcoin and I
don't know how many months later he
pulled the plug on the whole thing and
said no we're not doing it anymore but
so we haven't seen that adoption it
hasn't it hasn't uh become any more of a
currency than it was when it was first
created that's a very fair thing it
hasn't because the problem is it keeps
going up so you're disincentivized to
sell it or it's very volatile right it's
not very good as a currency well it's
not very good at the main thing it was
designed for but and and I remember when
I first heard about it when I first
heard about Bitcoin the way it was sold
to me was hey you can circumvent all the
AML requirements you don't have you get
out of the banking system you can
transact anonymously in private and you
and you don't have to worry about the
government spying on you you can be out
of the banking system I got into it for
an entirely different reason which is as
Dan tapiero would call it it's the
security truth machine it's the value of
The
Ledger it's the value of having a new
way of creating trust in the world in a
world where trust is broken you don't
know how much gold the Federal Reserve
has right this is a trust problem we've
got the same trust problem with the
future have any I'm going to channel the
comment section right now and they are
all saying Peter Schiff is religious
about gold because Tom asked a question
what would need to be true for you to
change your mind and you've spent the
last five minutes telling us all the
reasons you won't change your mind well
I'm not talking about gold I mean Gold's
been valuable for thousands of years
it's not like it's up to me what would
have to be true for you to change your
mind about Bitcoin if the answer is
nothing that is religious conviction
from where I'm sitting I've been given
the same answer for you know for 10
years what will prove me wrong about
Bitcoin would be if Bitcoin replaces the
dollar buo you know as a uh as a
currency uh when I go to the grocery
store and not only does the grocery
store accept payment in Bitcoin but all
the prices are in Satoshi
but do we do that with gold that's a bit
unfair right have have you gone to have
you gone to the supermarket with a gold
bar no because no but gold is not being
used as money right now it's being used
as a commodity it's being used as a
metal Bitcoin can't be used as anything
so it it has to be a currency it was
created to be a currency so let me see
it function as a currency it hasn't done
that at all since it was created your
applying a different set of Standards my
friend no I'm not it's like it's like
you're also asking me what would it have
what would have to happen for me to
believe that Santa Claus is real I don't
know you know I mean you're asking me
you it it's a fake asset it's phony I I
can't imagine what could happen to
convince me that something that isn't is
you know it's the the more question is
what gets you to stop believing in it
because you're the one that is that
believes in a fantasy I live in so he
answered that his answer just to recap
is that the energy in the network
adoption usage would have to go down
very finite totally understand but you
in your just gave a very concrete answer
uh I don't know how I'm less worried
about that
but what I'm trying to do so I'm just
trying to paint a sense of what the base
assumptions are that build your guys's
worldview uh with that answer Peter I
it's very helpful um I come back to your
core thesis is if it isn't real physical
tangible and does not have real physical
tangible use cases then it it will never
cross your threshold it can be int it
doesn't have to be physical to be useful
but Bitcoin doesn't do anything right
all it is is a is a speculative vehicle
that I could trade I can yes I can hold
it and I can sell it but my ability to
sell it rests on the the the fact that
somebody else wants it and why would
somebody else want it because they think
they can sell it and they think they can
sell it at a higher price if they think
they can sell it at a lower price
they're not going to want it so the
demand for Bitcoin is a function of the
fact that everybody expects the future
price to be higher but the minute you no
longer have that expectation for an
appreciating price there's no buyers
there's not because there's nothing you
can do with it between the time you buy
it and the time you sell it and so it
just goes down there's no reason to own
it I am very much not trying to convince
you I simply want this position to be
understood you can still reject it and
say that doesn't work for you and I'd
completely understand but um I think one
position that's worth putting on the
table would be that I look at the
economic situation that we're in right
now and I say I need a flight to safety
um so I have invested in Gold that that
is one potential flight to safety I have
unease about that because I have a
thesis that the every new child born now
is going to believe in digital things
more Than Physical things in in this
case now I could end up being wrong and
over time that that will be in the wash
but again just just trying to be
understood not trying to be convincing
um that the use case then for someone
with that belief set becomes that if
there are only 21 million there will
only ever be 21 million and people keep
losing them so that number is actually
deflating now I have a place that
mimetically people believe in that I can
I can buy and hold that I don't need the
price to be volatile in fact with my
personality I would rather it was not
volatile and now as it matures there's
no volatility or at least low there's a
place for me to um Park my money that
cannot be inflated now I feel good
buying Bitcoin today at $60 odd,
thousand of Bitcoin do you think that's
safe do you think it's a safe place for
your money do I think it's safe no I
don't think anything is safe in a
shorttime horizon on a long time Horizon
right now it feels the safest but even
if even if in the short run it can go
from 60,000 to
20,000 you still think it's safe even
though you might need to sell it when
it's 20,000 well so again I I I don't
consider myself a a partner in this
debate I'm merely trying to steer it so
I just want to make sure that that that
idea is understood again rejected is
fine just trying to place it as a thing
to be understood because I think this is
the core thing that breaks between again
you guys' archetypes that's where I
think this breaks is when I look at
Bitcoin and now I'm just speaking about
Bitcoin I see Ah that's that's an
inflation H that hedge that resonates
with me because I believe in the same
thing that R happens to believe in which
is the network effects just mimetically
people believe in it and then I ask
myself is tomorrow when I say is
tomorrow going to be more digital than
today I mean will people have a baseline
understanding of the world as a digital
place or a physical place I think they
will have a baseline understanding of
the world as a digital Place more than a
physical place now that that may have
horrendous KnockOn effects I'm I'm not
even speaking to that I'm just saying I
think that is where it's going maybe
you're right maybe you're wrong but
regardless uh buying Bitcoin is not safe
it's it's highly speculative you're
speculating on a bunch of things that
you think might happen but you're not
playing it safe nobody should operate
under delusion that I'm buying Bitcoin
because I want to play it safe you're
you you know you should not put any
money into Bitcoin that you not 100%
willing to lose all of it so if you're
say yeah this is risk money I could lose
every penny that I put into Bitcoin and
I'm okay with that I mean I hope I don't
lose all my money I hope it goes to the
moon and I buy a Lambo but if I lose it
all I'm okay because I got other
resources that I can fall back on you
know that's how you have to look at it
you can't think that oh I'm going to put
my money on my all my money in here
because it's real safe yeah I I think
that's a very very fair point and is
exactly how I look at it um so just to
put a fine point on it so uh for you to
change your mind it would have to become
uh a currency that replaces the dominant
currencies in use today yeah itd have to
achieve some kind of scalability as a
medium of exchange unit of account and
yeah eventually the volatility would
obviously have to go it' have to
stabilize you know you know at some
price it could gradually rise you know
over time slowly you know depending on
you know how much inflation there is uh
in other currencies but maybe no other
currencies maybe all the other
currencies go away and all that's left
is Bitcoin right that's all that's all
we have left there's no more Euro
there's no more Yen the US government
wants Bitcoin Bitcoin is how you pay
your taxes Bitcoin is if you get a
welfare check it's it's Bitcoin that's
what you get right if if this all this
happens then I guess I was wrong um but
if all it is is a speculative vehicle if
all we have is more ways to bet on the
direction of the price uh then nothing
has been proven and yeah the price could
go up Could It Go from 60,000 to 100,000
it could but it could go from 60,000 to
10,000 or a lot lower and my my question
would be and I'm sure if Bitcoin Falls
today from 60,000 to 20,000 or 10,000
all the people who have been telling me
how great it is they're they're not
they're going to be saying the same
thing they're and they're going to be
saying well don't worry it'll come back
it'll come back well maybe maybe not
maybe it won't come back you know maybe
it maybe the next time it really drops
it'll just drop again there's no way to
know you know they always say past
performance is no a guarantee of future
results so just because Bitcoin has come
back in the past doesn't mean it's going
to come back in the future do you do
speculative investing do you have a
portion of your portfolio yeah I mean I
do I mean I've been buying that's what I
said I bought a lot more gold stocks
this week I regard that as speculative
but I bought I bought them I thought I
think you know I think they're cheap I
think I'm going to make a lot of money
on my gold stocks we'll see uh but I
know I'm
speculating I didn't buy I didn't buy
any physical gold I I but I bought gold
stocks now when I buy gold stocks I own
some physical gold because the gold
mining companies have gold in the ground
they haven't mined it yet so as a as a
stockholder I have a share of that
unmined gold okay as uh for both of you
as spec when you're specula atively
investing do you look for volatility or
do you avoid it R if I'm speculatively
investing I'm looking for
volatility with a risk adjusted return
that I think is in my favor obviously we
get bets wrong we get bets right that's
the idea so you you look for a strong
trending asset with some hypothesis that
is relatively provable over time that
should continue to drive the asset
whether it's the Indian stock market a
technology company or Bitcoin or even
gold volatility is something you want if
you're a Trader I mean if you're trying
to trade a lot you volatility to trade
but when I talk about speculating in an
asset like a mining
company I'm not looking for the
volatility I'm looking to buy something
that I think is cheap but I'm also
hoping that there's a catalyst so that
in the future it will become expensive
and so I want to buy something when I
think it's cheap and not a lot of other
people want to buy it and I I want to
hold it till I think it's expensive and
everybody wants to buy it and I may be
wrong right I'm making a gamble because
I'm betting on things changing I'm
betting on whatever exists today
whatever perception people have that
those perceptions are wrong and they're
going to change in the future and so I
don't care about volatility I mean I
just want to buy I want I care about
price I want a low price uh and um and
what I like about the gold stocks is
nobody really owns them there's just a
handful of people that if you if you
look at the major uh you know holders
institutions endowments Pension funds
hedge funds they own either no gold
stocks or just a tiny amount but most of
them don't own any in fact I I joked on
my podcast you know there was the
nvidia's increase in its market cap in a
single day basically exceeded the entire
gold mining industry in one day just a
gain not that market cap of the whole
company just the increase on that one
day uh so it's a tiny little segment of
the market that has the potential to be
a lot less tiny you know and if that's
the case you know I I can make a lot of
money in these stocks meanwhile I do get
some dividends a lot of my gold stocks
are not my best dividend payers I mean
but I three 4% dividend so I collect
some interest some income on a lot of
these gold stocks uh but I'm giving up
some income because I get better yields
in other Investments but I think there's
a lot of potential for appreciation I
recognize I could be wrong in which case
I don't get the appreciation but I think
you know some of these stocks can go up
five or 10 fold some of them the smaller
ones could go up 50 or 100 fold so I I I
think there's a lot of uh upside
potential relative to the the downside
risk in these stocks so that's why I'm
I'm buying them but I look at them as
speculative if you had a time machine
you could go back in time and buy
Bitcoin 10 years ago would you do it of
course I mean I'm not an idiot well
first of all if I had a time machine I
could do a lot of things I you know uh
and I i' you I'd be the you know but of
course look you know yes do I regret I
mean I remember when I was sitting at my
desk my studio in Connecticut in Weston
and a guy working with me on my campaign
they were showing me Bitcoin and the guy
was like look just buy some you know
what the hell and I looked at it and I
don't remember if it was under a dollar
or over a dollar because I can't
remember but I remember it was like 2010
when I looked at it and I remember I
thought about it yeah she like I mean I
can throw 10 grand in it 50 Grand I
don't know I thought about it and I
didn't do it I was like ah you know this
is ridiculous but what am I you know I I
just I I I went away from it but I
thought about it I I thought about all
the odds and I I I didn't see this kind
of bubble potential I mean I thought
yeah maybe it could go up but I just
didn't want to deal with it now
obviously do I wish I had made the
decision to have thrown 10 grand 50
Grand 100 Grand into it sure yeah I may
be worth hundreds of millions assuming I
didn't sell but again I don't know what
I would have done had I made that
decision maybe I would have put it all
on Mount goau and I lost it there but
you don't know maybe some of the mount
gox money is coming back um I don't know
what I would have done if I had bought
it but yeah clearly I mean I I mean I
wish I'd have bought it but you know I I
would even if I had bought it even if I
would have bought it I wouldn't have
told other people to buy it I would have
had to kept quiet about it because I I
never believed in it so I would have
bought it just betting on other people
being dumb enough to buy it and pay a
higher price right I I wouldn't have
bought it because I actually believed in
it I would have bought it because I
believed other people would be would be
foolish enough or greedy enough to buy
it so I would have had to kept it quiet
I couldn't have like encouraged other
people to buy so I would have I I I so I
think publicly I I wouldn't have had a
different you know I would have been
singing the same song I just would have
made a lot of money if I would have if I
would have bought it
so you don't think there's a remote
chance you might have been more
enthusiastic about it had you have
bought it been involved in the community
made some money attended some of these
conferences saw what's going on with the
technology could it have been a
different piz of shiff and it could have
been shiff Krypto written on the wall
there I think there's a chance it could
have been and maybe you missed it well
look I like to think that I have
integrity and that I would have had the
same Outlook but is it possible that had
I bought it like so many other people
did might the fact that it went way
up might I have decided that rather than
being a lucky Gambler I was some kind of
a
genius and I I I I maybe operated under
the same delusion I mean it's possible
look you know there's you know uh power
corrupts so maybe money corrupts or it
distorts your perception I mean it's
it's easy for me to see the bubble when
I'm not inside it so maybe if I was in
the bubble with you guys maybe if I was
a crypto billionaire uh uh maybe maybe
maybe that would distort my perception
so maybe I would be maybe I would be out
there you know just as crazed as you
guys Peter in what world do you think
it's acceptable to insult asset holders
and think that's a normal thing that
they're idiots they can't see it they're
speculated why is why is that become an
acceptable way of
interaction I don't do it to Apple
shareholders well I mean I mean it's not
it's not so there's a there's a some
sort of psychology around gold that it
feels like it's being threatened and
that therefore there's an attack there's
an attack going back I mean it's kind of
strange ra I I like I talked to a lot of
people during the 1990s who were in love
with various
stocks and they all went to zero I
talked to a lot of people who thought
they would get rich owning their home
and multiple homes during the the the
real estate bubble and so I know the
psychology and and the way people act
when they're trapped in a bubble and
they can't see it now there were plenty
of smart people that own these stocks
that went to zero there are plenty of SM
smart people that own real estate so I'm
not saying there there are some really
smart people I mean intellectually smart
high IQ smart that don't Bitcoin I'm not
saying they're dumbb I'm just saying
they're making a mistake and their
judgment is being clouded by the money
uh they can't they everything is going
to be obvious in hindsight see a lot of
the things that I was saying when I was
warning about uh the housing bubble and
the subprime market a lot of the things
I was saying in 2003 and four and five
and six that were being dismissed all of
a sudden people were saying the same
thing oh yeah of course yes yes this
that's Peter are house prices higher
orow lower than they were then are
technology stocks higher or lower than
they were a a lot of them went to zero
it doesn't matter most of
the zero yes if you bought Amazon if you
bought you know uh uh you know uh uh
eBay you know if you bought there are
some stocks that made it but if you
bought pets.com or the globe.com you
lost everything there were a lot of
stocks most of them went to zero you
just need to own NASDAQ it's an index
that has the top 100 technology
companies so the bad ones get dropped
out the good ones survive and you made
an enormous amount of money by backing
technology but you're saying that people
were stupid to buy technology in 1999 no
I'm talking about individual stocks that
I'm talking about people were they they
were cult like you would have picked the
stocks better than those people for sure
cuz you saw it was all remember the
NASDAQ the NASDAQ went down from 5,000
to 1,000 so it went down 80%
and the only reason it didn't go down
90% was because the FED slashed interest
rates to 1% so you had to Fed rescue the
market it's up
15x I know where it is now it's another
bubble so let's see where let's see
where the next bottom is you know I mean
it's not I mean we're going it's a
Serial bubble blowing it's the same
inflation that you're talking about that
is driving these asset bubbles I'm not
I'm not denying that that happened you
know and I own I own some stocks that
are in technology that have gone up 10 I
I don't own none of these stocks I I
have some so out of Interest what value
do you get out of owning your gold what
is it that it does for you gold gold
gold is a small part of my portfolio
physical gold but it's a it's a store of
value it's a safe haven it's an
insurance policy it's it's I I look at
gold against what against what Peter rob
when you ask me why do I own gold you
should say why do you own dollars why do
you have dollars in the bank account why
do you have Euros or yen right why don't
I just spend all my dollars and buy
assets buy real estate buy stocks see
gold is liquidity for me it is an
alternative to the dollar to the euro
it's not an alternative to real estate
it's not really an alternative to
stocks uh it's an alternative to to the
dollar so what are you most overweight
in do you think your your savings um
mainly in real estate or you know how do
you think well those are investments
savings can be in Gold but you real
estate would be an investment unless
it's my you know my primary residence or
something then it's more of as an
investment you're speculating and going
up right because that's what an
investment is well an investment would
have an income component so if I have
real estate I got rental income if I own
stocks I have dividend income uh so my
my my investments are generating a
return uh you know if you're
speculating you know you're you're
betting on the price is is Amazon an
investment well Amazon it doesn't pay a
dividend right so I'm confused it sounds
like it's a bad investment for well
Amazon has earnings so it could pay a
dividend if it wanted to but it's
reinvesting it could do but it doesn't
that makes it okay okay but but you're
asking me do I think Amazon is a good
buy no I don't I think Amazon is is
overpriced it's obviously been
overpriced for a long long time you know
and and and and that hasn't stopped it
from going up but I do think that there
is a major decline in Amazon's future
whether it happens in nominal terms or
in real terms so nominal terms would be
the dollar price goes down in real terms
the gold price goes down but one of
those two things is going to happen I
don't own Amazon I mean I I'm a I'm a
good customer we buy from Amazon every
every day so I know they you know there
there's definitely value in that
business model the question is what's it
worth you know what's the what should
the price be and I think the market has
been overpricing it for a long time you
can reboot your life your health even
your career anything you want all you
need is discipline I can teach you the
tactics that I learned while growing a
billion dollar business that will allow
you to see your goals through whether
you want better health stronger
relationships a more successful career
any of that is possible with the mindset
and business programs in Impact Theory
University join the thousands of
students who have already accomplished
amazing things tap now for a free trial
and get started
today I just want to plant flag in in
World Views here for everybody tracking
this so um Peter the way that I read
where you're coming from is there is a a
safety measure that you put in when
evaluating an asset whether it has uh if
it's a dividend paying stock that has a
real uh profitable business behind it
there's a level of safety there that you
can count on that it's going to pay out
uh when things are potentially bubbles
you're certainly going to avoid that
real assets are going to get a real good
look from you uh there's something
physical something tangible about it
gold as a world currency that feels good
because if the dollar hyperinflated or
whatever you have an alternative um
place to go that that all makes sense
whether people agree with it or not
there's at least an internal worldview
that I can track everything that you're
saying about integrity um again whether
people agree with that or not at least
it tracks uh that the what's going on in
crypto does not meet your um criteria of
something that you would advise other
people to invest
uh you tend not to invest in things
minus the time machine uh that you would
not recommend that other people invest
in you didn't say that but I'm I'm
taking that much away um so uh same
thing with what was going on in uh the
early.com days just there was there was
a lot of Madness happening um that all
tracks for me R uh you see the network
adoption being a big part of this
technology a big part of your thesis
looking for areas of volatility where
you see liquidity moving into the system
you see people adopting it um yes
there's going to be high volatility but
there's some excitement to that there's
mimics which I think is a big Schism
between the two of you uh R I know that
you are very much a part of meme culture
you enjoy meme culture it's fun and I
think that um that is a bigger part of
what's happening in crypto than people
give credit to uh or or maybe just that
they they don't internalize what a big
part of all of that that is um and what
people believe in is not something that
you place a judgment on it just
something that is and as a as an
investor who's looking for that I can
buy here and it's going to go up over
time you see huge opportunities in that
and uh your core thesis would be to
advise people the quote unquote don't
[__] this up idea which we will
certainly get to later rather than um
stay away from this new uh space because
the volatilities there because so many
people are going to get wrecked just
stay out of it you take a very different
approach do either of you fail to
recognize those characterizations yeah I
just want to just um add a little bit to
M because I'm I don't suggest you know
there's a lot of my videos and you've
seen them where I talk
about life the value of lifestyle and
other things right so the value of a
home owning a home so I'm not saying
that those things don't matter they do
that gives you the foundational layer to
of which to take more risk and do these
things and the other thing I just want
to touch on is when you say I'm involved
in mean culture I've learned this bell
curve which is the mid twit bell curve
which is like if you can explain the the
the person who comes into a space kind
of like number goes up that's how they
think of it right Bitcoin number goes up
then there's a whole group of people in
the middle the mid it and they're
arguing about every aspect of it whether
over arguing in its favor or over
arguing against it and then there's a
person to the right side of the bell
curve gold has exactly the same right
there's a lot of people who've done a
tremendous amount of work on gold and
will just say well overtime Gold's a
good investment I get
that memes help you distill something
down to its simplest Essence and if you
don't understand something properly you
can't get it down to simplicity so I
talk about metics not also in terms of
meme that's kind of fun but if you've
read the book sapiens you'll understand
that it is the language of humans it is
the basis of everything government
religion
Community Law the legal system
everything is based on
storytelling that's the one thing humans
have over other animals and we' created
an entire civilization based on
storytelling
gold is part of
Storytelling everything is storytelling
so we can make it as complicated as we
can or we can understand that there's
some memetics to it and that's why I
kind of used that term interchangeably
but actually is a much deeper level it's
how humans do things I mean the other
thing that's very important in this
whole space and I think something you
and I have talked about is everything in
human society is contractual
some
are verbal some are written some are by
purpose and if you understand that all
of everything we do like me turning up
today was a contract now it wasn't a
contract for money or anything it was
like I agree to come on with you and
Peter these things are really
interesting because this is also part of
what blockchain is doing within these
things so we need to understand the
deeper elements of society and why this
matters at a at a larger scale so
there's a there's a lot behind all of
this so it's not just a network adoption
it's like these are the elements of
humanity much like gold has been an
element of humanity in many ways because
it's lasted when we needed things to
last when things we didn't store things
very well if you remember Peter did you
recognize yourself in my
description I guess somewhere in there
but yeah I just can't accept the idea
that we're all just going to you know
pretend something and that's going to
make it so I mean I I recognize that
religion it it can work for a while yeah
look I mean yes I mean religions have
been around for thousands of years I
guess so yeah I mean if you're going to
say well this is a religion but it's not
because because look people are going to
want to spend their Bitcoin at some
point the hoders are going to want to
buy real things with their paper stacks
of of of of Bitcoin and you know and so
if there isn't a new group of converts
to the religion to buy those uh Bitcoin
then it's a it's a
crash um and so you know yes it's all
sounds good we can all just you know
believe in something and because we
believe it's so you know it it is so I
kind of like to feel the
dreams uh
but the O I'm not going to bet on that I
mean that's a long shot and I'm not
going to put my confidence in
that and um it's really got nothing to
do with gold I mean the only reason that
gold comes up with Bitcoin is because
Bitcoin is trying to pretend that it's
gold it's trying to be a counterfeit of
gold I mean it's depicted as a coin when
it's not a coin it's depicted as the
color gold it has no color it has no
substance uh it doesn't have any of the
properties that gold has uh you know
it's not a metal right so you can't use
it instead of gold in any of the ways
that gold is used um but yeah you can
divide it like you can divide gold uh uh
you know you can exchange it from one
person to another like you can exchange
gold but that doesn't make it gold that
doesn't make it digital gold it makes it
doesn't make it anything uh but you know
but there people are trying to claim
it's gold to give it value it's like
what gives Bitcoin value well it's the
new gold right we don't need actual gold
anymore we have Bitcoin that that that's
that that's the that's the selling point
that's the the Spiel that you you know
that you that you're out there promoting
uh to get people to to own it I just
don't believe in it I think it's a bunch
of hype I mean you know it's again it's
the latest iteration of Fool's Gold
that's what it is fair okay very clear
uh I want to ask you guys both um your
thoughts on Michael sailor so he is
rapidly um becoming one of the biggest
micro strategies is becoming one of the
largest companies in the world uh last
check it was at 534 so just outside of
the Inc five uh the S&P 500 um obviously
You' have to make meet other criteria
but that's all based on the rise in
price in Bitcoin now you want to talk
belief perhaps even religious belief um
he certainly represents that never
selling only ever going to borrow
against it uh etc etc what what do you
guys think about that at this point I
don't think micro strategy is a software
company I don't think the shareholder
base even cares what micro strategy does
I think it's a Bitcoin proxy it's kind
of like a a a a closed in Bitcoin fund
or something like that I mean that's
really what it is so uh it's just going
to rise and fall with the price of
Bitcoin and um you know I know they have
borrowed some money so it's a lever bet
on bitcoin so so it's ultimately
probably riskier than than just buying a
Bitcoin ETF but you know you're levered
up a bit um but I think the market cap
of of uh bikro strategy is is a fiction
I think I think it's going to collapse
so you know I don't care you know where
it weights in the S&P
500 um you know I remember years ago
Mike Michael strategy uh he had a
conference you know Bitcoin for CEOs and
he was trying to convince CEOs to put
Bitcoin on the balance sheet I don't
think any of them did I mean maybe one
did I don't know but I haven't heard of
anybody that that did that and he's not
even out there trying to sell that
anymore uh but he loaded up his own
balance sheet with it and yeah now that
Bitcoin is back at 60,000 I think his
average price is about 40,000 so he's
got a gain but you know a year ago he
was sitting on billions of dollars of
losses um and we'll see what happens I
think think he's going to lose a lot of
money in Bitcoin I think uh the
shareholders of micro strategy but I
think you know that this people that
actually bought it as a software company
they're long gone they probably made
money off of this they were able to sell
out to a bunch of Bitcoin speculators
and so I think when the price crashes
it's just Bitcoin speculators who are
going to lose R what's your take I won't
get into the personal elements because
again there's no reason to be personal
about Michael and his position he holds
within the
community he took a very brave bet he
saw something I think I was the second
person ever to interview him um he saw
something that nobody else in the
corporate had seen and look let's face
it micr strategies was a kind of going
nowhere
business and he saw a way out it was
sitting on cash and he was worried about
his cash as we've all
been and he decided Ed to put some of
his cash into an
asset and that proved out to be really
good it was a it was a it was a risky
bet and it worked and then he thought
about well why don't I
just use my company to accumulate as
much of this asset as possible no issue
with that there's been several people in
commodity World who've done very similar
things it's a great strategy um he
took more risks than I prob would have
done I don't really like Leverage with a
volatility of like that but it paid off
um it could have gone wrong I know that
there was you know there was a relative
layer of comfort but in the market like
crypto you don't really know so he took
a very brave bet with a corporate
balance
sheet and the shareholders came along
with him for a ride for the reason Peter
said because it became a proxy to
Something in the end it's does he turn
it into into something more which is now
he's talking about can he turn it into a
whole kind of Bitcoin technology
business okay that's interesting that's
another call option on top because if
not it's just a Bitcoin holding company
and there's an ETF but if he now says
hey I'm going to do what Jack dorsy is
trying to do and start
using uh Building Technology around
Bitcoin to solve many of the problems
that we see in the world today good on
him if he can do that great and if you
can still keep adding Bitcoin to the
balance sheet
no different than if we found somebody
who was a gold miner or had a company
and they bought gold if they if Michael
sailor had bought gold Peter would love
him and he'd done the same thing with
his balance sheet so look he took a
macro bet and he did a bloody good job
of it it was risky uh I probably
wouldn't have done it myself because of
the
leverage but it but it worked so and if
he can now build something on top of
this then he's taken a
growth tech services company and turned
it to something very interesting so he
deserves plaudits for that it's a little
premature to just declare that it that
it worked or that it was a success now
it may have been a success for some
shareholders who got out and and made
money I don't know how many shares mik
Michael sailor has personally sold or
how much money he's personally made off
of this decision but to say that it's
been a success for micro strategy it
it's it's it's it's too soon to say uh
he hasn't sold he hasn't paid off the
debt the money that he borrowed so we
don't know how it's going to end he may
end up with a complete disaster on his
hands the company could end up bankrupt
that's absolutely Fair we don't know
what he's going to do maybe he takes out
A5 billion loan and you know we don't
know right maybe he becomes too risk
seeking and the whole thing implodes I
totally agree it's possible but so far
he he uh what he's done seems to seems
to have worked it seems to have worked
for now because the price has gone up it
didn't look like it was working a year
ago when he was when he was upside down
billions of dollars and so we'll see you
know we'll see where the price of
Bitcoin is when those notes mature and
he has to repay them you know uh so
there's still a lot of risk in in micro
strategy stock um so again you know I I
you know you should reserve your
judgment uh yeah he made a big bet you
know whether it was just bravery or
foolishness uh that he did it I a lot of
the stuff that Michael S says I I I I I
don't like I think he's led a lot of
people astray I mean I've heard him talk
uh encouraging people to take out loans
to back take out credit card loans to
buy Bitcoin all kinds of you know
encouraging people to speculate uh and
go into debt to buy Bitcoin I think
that's a bad advice you know he he talks
about Bitcoin you know as if it's energy
you know I mean yes I I understand that
you need energy to create a Bitcoin but
owning a Bitcoin provides no energy
whatsoever I can't extract energy from
Bitcoin it's not like it's a battery you
need energy to produce it but all that
energy is a waste because you've
produced nothing but he says a lot of
things about it that I just think are
completely deceptive uh to try to tout
it up because obviously he has a big
vested interest in the Bitcoin price
going up and so every chance he gets he
um he he wants to you know pump it up
but you know he's a lot of people have
tried to get him to do you and I are
doing a lot of people have said hey
Michael sailor will you do a Bitcoin
debate with Peter shiffy he's refused
every invitation but he likes to talk
about me he likes to bring up my name
but he he he wouldn't engage me the way
you're doing so um you know I I even was
at a conference I went to a
conference out of the you know and he
was supposed to be there and so I agreed
to go and they were going to try to get
me to debate him and then not only did
he not want to debate me he ended up
cancelling and when he didn't even show
up at the conference I was there by
myself
so yeah he doesn't want to have he
doesn't you know because there are a lot
of things that he said that I've taken
issue with that I wanted to challenge
him on and I I've never gotten the
opportunity can you guys help me
understand his meme of never sell your
Bitcoin so if he's buying on Leverage uh
the only way I can wrap my head around
it is as long as the price has gone up
more by the interest on the loan you
could theoretically keep taking out a
loan to pay the previous loan uh is
there anything I'm missing or is that
literally loan after loan after loan
yeah eventually he has to sell to repay
the debt unless he thinks the you know
the he can just keep borrowing more or
if he thinks that his creditors will
take will take their payment in Bitcoin
in which case he can just give his
creditors his Bitcoin R do you have any
insight look if if your loan is this big
and your assets got so the loan is your
debt is this big and your collateral is
this big right it's the opposite of the
financial system issue doesn't really
matter it's fine it's only when your
collateral is below the amount of of the
debt that you have so yes I mean he can
just sell a small fraction of his a
fraction um a you know a percentage of
his Bitcoin to pay it off what would
normally happen is maybe people continue
to roll it maybe they don't depends what
happens with his business does he build
a new cash flow you know there's a lot
of unknowns in this equation so I think
it's very difficult to know what that
answer is uh until we see
it's also possible that the collateral
could collapse in value and the loan
amount does not and you know he borrow
sailor borrowed a lot of this money in a
zero interest rate environment now he
didn't pay zero but he got a pretty good
deal uh and when these loans mature to
roll them over it would be far more
expensive than it was when they were
originally yeah it depends whether they
Interest really makes a difference in a
volatile asset like this but I mean that
was the risk right in the bare Market if
crypto was was his collateral going to
be worth less than the debt and was he
going to get called on it um you know
and a lot of people were trying to work
out that mechanic but you know he got it
he did it he structured it well enough
that he didn't get called on it okay so
far I mean do you know when the debts
are due when when he actually has to
repay I don't know how the the maturity
length but also don't forget a lot of
them were from much lower levels if you
didn't get tests on it when it was down
75% at 15,000 he's not out of the woods
look you know all these banks that that
would have failed last year you know
what did they own they own they owned
treasuries they owned mortgages and
interest rates went up and uh you know
they were they were insolvent I I think
there's a lot of risk in the micro
strategy balance sheet uh it it all
depends on where the Bitcoin price is
pet I think there's a bigger risk I
think the bigger risk is
hubris if you think you can if you think
you can do no not you but if if once
you've taken such a big bet and it's
worked and you've used leverage you have
a tendency to want to do more of
it he may he may buy even more Bitcoin
who knows I mean he already I mean it's
possible that would be the bigger risk
if he went out if he went out and raised
another 10 billion in debt to do this
trade again you know this's thing hubris
is a big you know when people have a big
successful trade I've had many friends
who Nails stuff like the financial
crisis and the subprime and the
Sovereign crisis in 2012 they've never
recovered because they've always thought
that the next big trade is coming and
and they've blown themselves up doing it
I don't know there that's one thing as
hubris would be my biggest risk here
that can he make a mistake or can he
just say I've taken the risk it worked
out I'm going to build this new Bitcoin
technology business and we can all sail
off into the sunset and be happy look if
he if he were to sell a bunch of Bitcoin
now and pay off his debts early and and
deleverage the balance sheet you know
then you know you could say something
but I I I doubt that that he's doing
that I I you know and I wouldn't be
surprised if he's buying into this rally
I would not be surprised if we find out
that he's bought more oh he had I
thought he he he just made announcements
yeah just oh he did two days ago I think
at these
prices he's been buying all the way yeah
well that's part of the reason it's
going up because he keeps buying
it's like what happens when he starts
selling we find where the price is yeah
I mean we see old joke you know you're
thing is he is not going to sell huh he
he has stated on multiple occasions he
is not going to sell all right well yeah
okay he has to say
that he has to say that yeah we we'll
see we'll see I don't know where that
goes all right I want to move on to
where the economy is going so we set up
in the beginning that uh we have this
economic problem um I want to zero in on
debt so I am Peter one of the things
that I really gravitate towards you with
is that I can't shake the more I learn
about the economy the more I find myself
pulled into this sense that the economy
is Wily coyote he's already run off a
cliff and it's that moment where he
holds up the sign but he hasn't fallen
yet and I think I heard that actually
from you Ral so it's like ah H what is
happening like we have so much debt how
do we how do we get out of this I've
been using that Wy coyote analogy for
like 20 years so it shows you how long
we've been off the cliff and nobody's
looked down um but does that just mean
that we're crazy and that it's going to
be fine and look at this point you know
the the the the numbers are just so big
the trajectory of the debt uh with the
maturity of you know we have a $34
trillion debt uh where in the next year
you know 10 12 trillion of it matures it
has to be refinanced it was originally
the money was borrowed at very very low
rates uh the rates are many many times
higher the structural deficits are
higher um the FED is selling treasuries
uh the the government trust fund Social
Security me are is selling treasuries
foreign central banks are either selling
or not buying uh it the bubble is just
you know it's so big at this point you
have you know households have record
amounts of debt credit card debt
Consumer Debt all-time record high you
know all facets of debt you know at
record highs um you know the numbers are
just so big so you know can it go on for
another 20 years I I just don't see how
it's even remotely possible um can it go
on for another two years that's that's a
a more a pertinent question I don't know
uh but yeah I think at any moment
there's there could be a sovereign debt
crisis there could be a dollar crisis I
mean it is inevitable that it's going to
happen the only thing that I don't know
is when and obviously it's you know it's
taken a lot longer than I would have
thought uh the bubble's gotten a lot
bigger I mean the US has been able to
get away with it we've got deeper and
deeper into debt uh and we've been able
to survive only because we can keep
borrowing more and nobody
questions whether or not we can repay
nobody even cares if we could repay
because they know that we can print and
they just assume that the dollars we
print they're always going to have value
no matter how many we create and that's
just not true you know at some point uh
you know it it ends right it's like how
many straws can you put on a camel's
back we're going to find out but you
don't know until the last one breaks it
and something's going to happen uh and
and this whole system is going to
collapse and when it does you know if
you're an investor you better have the
right portfolio and that you know I
think I've been overly prepared for that
for a long time but I think I think the
day will come where I'm going to be
Vindicated on that Rob what do you think
there's uh there's no difference between
getting the timing wrong and just being
wrong um but let me throw out some
numbers by the end of this year the
national debt will be 2 trillion per
year in three to four years the
government will pay more in interest
than they collect in taxes so uh we're
already uh bigger than National Defense
in terms of what we pay here in the US
just servicing the debt
um how if it goes for another 20 years
somebody with my mentality is is just
going to get slapped around the board
because I'm acting like it's going to
happen soon um but is it like how do we
how do we make sense of these numbers is
is there a nothing Burger way out of
this or is this a guaranteed Slaughter
and we just don't know when you are
being slaughtered and you don't realize
it it all happened already it is
underway and everybody's waiting for
that all the assets are down
90% it can't happen it simply can't
happen because it all happened in 2008
in
2008 the world
stopped the whole debt system blew up we
had to have a debt Jubilee of resetting
all government debts around the world at
zero so we could afford to service
it we've kept rates low we been then
using the balance sheet of all of the
central banks just to pay the interest
on the debt from the previous Cycles
this is this everything code thesis that
you and I have talked
about so we are paying the debts by
printing money pure
debasement the system broke in 2008 we
then changed the financial system with
the Basel 3 agreements which forced the
banks to lend less and to hold more
Treasury IES why there's going to be a
lot of supply of
treasuries the whole system everybody's
aware that it's broken it broke so what
is going on now well for it to actually
broke the down 90% it's all going to be
1929 again can't you just see it you're
missing the point they're debating the
currency by 15% a year it adds up to a
staggering loss of
wealth it is in a tax That You Don't See
15% a year debasement is easier than
increasing your tax rate 15% which is
politically unacceptable which is what
they need to do to pay the debt because
the printing of money just abases the
currency so you are paying it we are all
paying it what what they should do is
default on the debt that is the best
thing to do because they can't they
can't Peter I I agree the Austrian thing
the Austrian thing is what they should
have done
it it it was too late and the reason
being look they're not going to they're
not going to they're not going to do the
right thing well they can't because
maybe Malay will do the right thing in
Argentina at this point we'll see yeah
but they see the difference of the
structure of the western Society is all
the money is held by old people the
entire system is basically in the hands
of retirees and all the wealth so if you
say all of their assets are down
75% that is the wealth of the nation
gone so nobody's well it's not all their
assets but yeah they're they're going to
their debt but they're going to lose it
through inflation either way it's either
default or or or de way but you know I
wanted to point out you you talk about
the national debt you know official
national debt is two trillion but the
actual national debt the budget deficit
they claim is 2 trillion but the
national debt is already growing at four
trillion a year that's we're we're
that's how that's the rate that it's
growing already and during the next
official re recession it's going to be
on an even greater trajectory so the
issue is why we all agree
right but I just don't think it can
collapse why because of debasement but
that is a collapse that's a collapse of
the monetary system that's and it could
lead to hyperinflation yeah let let me
just play out my thesis here which is I
don't disagree you can't have assets
going down 90% you know the core Al of
the system if they're debating the
currency because they go up optically
because the currency is going down the
Venezuelan stock market goes up in bolar
terms and down in dollar terms right so
therefore if your collateral keeps going
up which is what they learned in 2008 is
we can back stop the entire thing by
debating the currency quickly the
collateral goes up and hey Presto my
debts aren't so bad okay magic it's not
magic as you know it's a slight of hand
it's not pure magic what they're doing
is robbing you in a different way okay
this has happened before this is exactly
what happened in the 1940s and 50s
saddled with massive debts after World
War II the large economies did the same
thing Financial repression that yield
curve control which is buying of
government bonds keeping interest rates
low which we've
seen and they just printed money and
over time the value of the debt had
eroded and what they' managed to do was
create a productivity Miracle which
drove GDP growth one one thing you're
you're you're overlooking though a key
difference back then so after the second
world war and the government ran up a
lot of debt uh during the War uh but
they did it they paid for a lot of the
war with tax hikes they had tremendous
tax hikes uh particularly the income tax
which tripled uh when the war started in
fact they introduced a withholding tax
in 1942 as a victory tax so before the
second world war hardly anybody paid
income taxes by the end of the second
world war a lot of people were paying
income taxes and when the war ended the
government had all of this income tax
revenue coming in and they initially it
was temporary to win the war but when
they stopped the war they didn't stop
the income tax and so the government was
flushed with cash and so it paid down a
lot of that debt debt collapsed in the
years because the government ran huge
surpluses and paid down a lot of that
debt so it wasn't all just inflated away
yeah when the 1960s and70s rolled around
there was a lot of inflation but the
initial big drop in debt was an honest
repayment because we stopped spending
money on the war the problem now is we
haven't cut any spending we're taxing
people to the hilt right now and we
don't have the type of economy we had a
real industrial economy in the 1940s we
had we had wealthy consumers that that
loan money to the government that bought
the the war bonds uh we sold the war
bonds to China you know Americans are
broke so we're a levered up country
running huge trade deficits uh you know
we're we're we're and we we have no
means of repaying the debt like we did
in 1946 so the the debt is now going to
go straight up it's not going to go down
like it did uh during those decades
we're we're just go we're just getting
started it's 125% of GDP it's going to
go to 150 200% 300% it can't stop until
everything implodes I don't
disagree I'm so I'm wildly crazily
bullish because I'm so
bearish bullish on what assets because
they're get well in nominal terms in
nominal terms correct but in Gold terms
a lot of these assets have to come down
their real price has to come down so you
know I also believe that GDP growth
equals
productivity plus population plus debt
growth I think debt growth died in 2008
and all debt growth now servicing of old
debts and population has been shrinking
so economies have been slow and
productivity is low because of Aging
populations we're just bringing Ai and
robots into the workforce it's infinite
human infinite humans so we GDP growth
driven by productivity and population
growth is what I think is on the horizon
which is what rescues this rescues this
but after what 15% a year debasement of
currency you know you add 10 years of
that and you've lost most of your money
so none of us disagree we're all getting
[__] but it's how are you going to get
[__] are you going to get [__] in
one go because it all Burns to the
ground or they're going to [__] you so
you don't really know you're being
screwed but you're just going to get
angrier and angrier that's what we're
seeing politics has gone like this
because everybody's so bloody angry
because they can't figure out who's
screwing them and they're blaming each
other
what Screwed them is there was too many
old people and they borrowed too much
money what I want to understand is the
timeline on all of this because it seems
like the debt is going to ratchet up so
fast uh and if we're only going to be
able to print our way out of it I get at
first maybe for the next three maybe
five years um I don't notice that I'm
being screwed over
but unless you guys tell me that the
amount that we can print before we break
the campell's back is 180 trillion or
just some unbelievable number that is so
far from where we are today this feels
like I If we're really in a race for do
do I get to that number of trillions of
dollars before the robots come and
increase productivity so much that I'm
back to a 1946 place where I'm
generating so much productivity I can
actually pay the debt down I'm sure
Peter won't agree with this and you all
half agree with it and half hate it and
that's
okay if I'm right that AI plus robots is
infinite productive
units and you see how fast it's coming
you literally are not capable of
understanding what an economy looks like
Beyond 2030 that's the problem I've got
here I'm not concerned about the Cliff
of death right that we're going through
I found an asset that I can invest in
crypto or I could buy technology and
it's offsetting the mess of the
debasement so I'm
fine what's harder is to say what the
hell does an economy mean after 2030
when you've got endless Ai and robots
and AGI what is a
company what value do you provide in
that world or I provide we sit there
talking to people about it and thinking
our way through it but both you and I
are developing AI tools of which we will
have a digital Tom and a digital ra and
we don't even need to turn up to these
and they'll do a pretty good job we're
both working on these things right but
are we going to be just repl the point
being is when you go to like Nick
Bostrom who who is the the key thinker
about this at Oxford University who
wrote the book I can't remember the
famous book about the whole kind of
where the future's going there's a group
there an economics group there who share
the same concerns as me is like if this
is right you could double GDP in a year
global GDP or a
week what what what do companies mean
when AI I have a theory that open AI is
using AGI to build its own AI which is
why they're iterating so fast with what
500 people it's [__] Madness what
they're doing how how fast they're
iterating I've never seen anything like
it even Elon Musk is like I've never see
anything like what's going on here the
more we have ai to to build AI to build
build businesses the faster and faster
this
goes so in answer your question the
explosion could be the other way
around it could not it might not be the
economy imploding it could be the
economy exploding in a way that we don't
even know how to deal with it what do
humans mean what is our job you know all
of this stuff you and I have talked
about I actually worry about very
different things I don't worry about the
economy going down the toilet because I
know how they're dealing with that
they've kind of set the rule book I can
make money from that that's okay it's
this other bit that's the hard bit
that's more scary what do you give the
odds Peter one do you think that he's on
to something or does that seem just
completely sci-fi to you well um I mean
I think there's no question that over
time um artificial intelligence robotics
is going to lead to a dramatic increase
in human productivity I mean I mean
that's just what capitalism does and
this is a I think a potentially
gamechanging Innovation the question is
how long is it going to take to build
out and scale up and you know uh and how
are politicians going to
react um to the creative destruction
which always comes from uh Innovation uh
there's always somebody that loses uh
but net net Society gains and eventually
you know over time everybody gains
because we we don't want jobs I mean we
want stuff I mean that that that is the
the the the secret of of an economy it's
the scarcity of things uh we all desire
uh certain things and the constraint is
the ability to supply them and and
Supply is constrained by land by labor
by Capital uh but uh Ai and Robotics has
the potential to dramatically increase
uh the supply of labor uh intellectual
you know thinking and and processing and
so at the end of the day we could
produce a lot more with a lot less and
we'd all be wealthier I mean you know
again means work is a means to an ends
you don't want your job you want all the
things that you could buy with the
paycheck that you earn if you could skip
the job and go right to the stuff most
people would do it right most people
don't work because they like to work
they'd rather not work they just like
what they could buy uh with with with
the paycheck so I mean I I I think that
all of this could be good and you know
it's certainly a lot of potential you
know I'm 61 years old I'd like to think
that this AI could figure out how to do
something about that so so I could I
could I could be younger and live longer
and so that's another GameChanger I mean
what if our life expectancy is
dramatically extended too right I mean
maybe maybe we don't live to 100 maybe
we live to 150 I don't know 200 who the
hell knows you know um but yeah there's
a lot of things that could happen that I
would be looking forward to I'm not you
know apprehensive about these
things um but I also don't think that
it's necessarily it could be but I don't
think it's necessarily A get out of jail
free card uh for the sins of the past uh
that we're not going to have to deal
with the debt well you probably all
agree Peter that we are dealing with it
now right we're all we're all get having
the effects of this put upon us already
well we're we're feeling it and I I I've
been saying for a while that's why Biden
is so unpopular it's not because of his
mental gaffs it's because the economy
sucks and the voters know this and
they're blaming Biden because he's at
you know at the helmet the ship that's
sinking and and so despite all the hype
and all the statistics the average
American family is feeling the inflation
tax in a big way and and and yes there's
a lot of jobs but there's second jobs
and third jobs that people would rather
not have they're struggling to make ends
meet and they hate having to take on
these extra jobs
and and this is going to get worse I
think the inflation Genie is out of the
bottle uh it never was really gone it's
just that the government was able to
cover up inflation uh with a you know by
cooking the books but the inflation is
now so uh pricious and the and the
impact on prices is so great that even
when you whitewash it you know with the
CPI it it can't hide it anymore because
the numbers are so big the costs are
rising so rapidly people can see it and
there's a limit to how small they can
make the package at some point they
can't keep shrinking stuff they got to
raise prices and make it even more
obvious uh but and it's not just America
it's happen in Europe it's happened in
Japan I mean all these countries that
said for years the problem is we don't
have enough inflation we need to create
more they now have too much inflation
and and they can't stop it because
stopping it would require politically
unexpectable things they have to cut
government spending you know they have
to default on a bunch of promises they
have to deliver a lot of bad news to the
voters and nobody wants to do that and
so everybody is just going to continue
and they think oh we've gotten away with
it before we did qe1 we did QE2 we did
qe3 we did covid so we could do it again
right look every time we get into
trouble we just print money and we're
out of trouble well all that is is
inflation and so if your problem uh is
uh uh uh deflation or collapse of assets
or whatever and you think you can solve
the problem by creating
inflation the problem is when inflation
is the problem when that's the source of
everybody's misery you can't solve the
inflation Problem by creating more
inflation because that's been the
solution to every problem we've had is
let's create inflation that's our
solution we can call it quantitative
easing easy money but what we're really
doing is we're solving the problem by
papering it over with inflation well now
we're at the point where inflation is
the problem so more inflation just makes
it worse so it's you know we're past the
point of no return uh and it's just a
question question of yeah you know when
when do we look down and realize we're
standing on nothing and I think that
applies to bitcoin too you know you look
down and you realize there's nothing
there you know there's a lot of uh false
perceptions that are going to uh meet
reality uh in the near future just as a
side note what happens Peter if all of
these value assets that are going to
catch up eventually and haven't done for
the last 20 years don't what happens if
gold continues to underperform what
happens if your model of the
world is out moded I'm not saying it is
but could you possibly consider that not
everybody's wrong it's just the way that
you assume that everybody's wrong I just
find that a little bit I'm not saying
everybody is wrong I'm saying the people
that believe in Bitcoin are wrong but
that's certainly not everybody and the
Market's wrong and the technology price
is wrong and that that your source of
truth is the truth and the market
pricing is not the truth
truth markets markets get it wrong a lot
you know in the short run it's a voting
machine in the long run it's a weighing
machine and right now I think people are
are making bad bad votes you know uh and
and and so I you know I just think it's
a Mania I mean you know every time
there's a Mania right it means assets
are mispriced I mean we've had plenty of
Bubbles and they pop and and that's that
um I just think that that that this is
this is another one so you know I I I
think the the is on the people who
believe in it to try to say why this you
know this is different of course you
know that's the famous words of every
bubble This Time It's Different uh I
don't think it is I think this time it's
the same I mean you know and and and and
and so I think that the same thing is
going to happen but as far as why you're
saying why is gold not gone up look in
the scheme of things when people look at
a long-term chart of gold the fact that
it's gone sideways for 10 years is is is
immaterial to the you know the thousands
of years that gold has been around and
gold has been a store of value but
that's over the period of the worst
debasement that we've seen in the last
100 years and gold didn't do it right so
let's say gold all of a sudden has a
year or two where it catches up and it
goes from 1,000 to five or 10,000 right
so it it doesn't necessarily have to go
there in a straight line gold could go
up go sideways go up you know and so
yeah over a longer period of time it's
going to smooth its way out now the
question is why did gold not go up
higher sooner well remember it went from
300 to almost 2,000 it had a very big
move uh in a in a relatively short
historical period of time and and so
then it went sideways for a decade and
the reason I believe is because
investors have complete confidence in
central banks they don't believe that
there's a a threat of of inflation out
there or a debt bubble uh and and so
they don't see the reason to buy gold
they would rather buy tech stocks um and
and so I I I I think it's just people
have a
misconception just like you know you
mentioned the subprime and I remember
you know when I was when I first found
out about these subprime mortgages a guy
showed up at my office named Andy lahti
probably in 2005 or six and you know I
was already bearish on the housing
market and he came to me with an idea to
set up a hedge fund to short these these
subprime uh mortgages this tranch and he
explained it to me and I was like well
why the hell would anybody buy these
These are obviously going to go to zero
I mean how can people be buying them and
they were trading above par they were
they were actually paying more than than
par to buy these tranches that I knew
were going to zero and I was like well
you know people just believed in this
you know and so the assets were
mispriced and they were mispriced for a
few years until they eventually were
priced correctly at zero but but I knew
that they were worth zero the minute
they were explained to me but you know
and what the guy told me is he had gone
to a lot of uh you institutions with the
same story and everybody laughed at him
I was like the first guy that didn't
laugh at him because I knew that real
estate prices were going to go down
everybody else thought real estate
prices could never fall and so as long
as real estate prices never fell well
then it didn't matter if anything
defaulted right I was a guy that knew
that eventually estate prices would come
down uh and and so you can have a period
of time where a lot of smart people can
believe something that's wrong and so
assets could be mispriced as a result of
that shared delusion and I believe
that's the situation with with Bitcoin
and what happened to me was actually the
opposite CU I was the macro bear that
everything reverts to the mean that it
was all terrible and it is all
terrible and I realized I had the wrong
mental model
and the moment I actually freed myself
of my own biases and tried to understand
what the [__] was going on and why were
these assets going
up why why was this happening I then
could see what was going on and what the
big game was and as soon as I could see
that it became a game I could make money
from and that I didn't have to be
stuck wishing and I've seen a lot of
friends of mine do this wishing that
value stocks or small Caps or whatever
it is are going to work for them and
it's been 20 years now and I've realized
I had the wrong mental model and the
moment I changed it I feel felt
liberated because the world kind of
makes sense and I just urge all of
us to just make
sure that we don't get obsessed by our
own mental models because they will
change and the world changes and
sometimes we can be dead wrong and
sometimes we can be dead right I mean I
nailed the financial crisis I nailed the
European Sovereign crisis I nailed covid
I nailed all of these things by being a
big bear and something I suddenly
realized is yeah but assets kept going
up that whole period I should have just
been long and have made more money and
that made me ask the question of myself
the dip by the dip that ask the question
is like that dumb meme of by the dip I
wanted to go all the way across the bell
curve go to the middle bit arguing it
all come to the other side and realize
that by the dip was actually the single
best strategy to have ever existed over
this period of financial mess and I was
stupid for not seeing it so anyway I'm
just saying be careful CU Tom I can see
that you're so allured by the black hole
the black hole that is there you it kind
of comes to you and we have this
conversation I try and pull you back
from the black hole and say yeah it's
there but there's an opportunity here
and you're like but the black hole just
be careful of the mental model because
it will massively restrict you in what
you do even how you think about life and
how you interact with people around you
so it's something I've learned the hard
way is we've all got to be a little more
open to a everyone's
opinions and B our own biases and how
ingrained they
are and have they become part of of our
personality just because it
is or it's part of the how we fear like
some people fear risk so they become a
certain way and present that to the
world around them or somebody some
people have made money and then they've
worried about losing it because their
family didn't come from money we're all
set of our own human ridiculous biases
so just we should just all in all of
these conversations just step back a
little bit you're looking at it from the
vantage point of where we are everything
is at record highs and so it looks like
yes that was the right thing to do to to
buy the dip but we haven't had the
crisis yet that's the thing we we've
been able to Kick the Can down the road
and all of these structural problems
have been growing the entire time uh
that we've been ignoring them and and
the question is you know how many more
times can this work um because there we
get I mean I think you got to you got to
watch the bond market you got to watch
the gold market the for Exchange Market
but at some point it's going to crack
Tom did this Tom did this earlier and it
was a very good question is what would
make you think the
opposite and we all need to be able to
do
that because you we can't keep saying
well asset price have gone up so
therefore you don't know whether you
were right or wrong it's like and this
is no attack on you or anything it's me
thinking through this stuff is how do
you know
that maybe you have done yourself a
disservice or I've done myself a
disservice or Tom is doing himself a
disservice by thinking the way that we
do have we held ourselves back have we
lost an opportunity cost that we didn't
imagine because we're so Anchored In
what we think we think or we project to
other people I'm just that's all I'm
trying to get across it's not about
who's right who's wrong I'm
saying at a human level
what happens if you had bought Bitcoin
and bought the NASDAQ and were 10 times
richer than you are today would you care
about some of the things you think about
now maybe not Tom if you hadn't made
money when you were
young and then fear losing it maybe you
wouldn't be worried about the black hole
maybe you'd be more risk seeking maybe
you know
just think about it in a bigger context
than fighting over what price an asset
is we need to ask ourselves why we think
that I think that's really interesting
yeah the point is as long as the
underlying problems continue to get
worse I don't I don't think I'm wrong so
if we actually find a way to solve these
problems you know if if uh you know we
get dramatic Cuts in in government
spending if we start paying down the
debt if we get enough deregulation but
Peter sorry I just want to ask you a
question what is the end the worst case
scenario game what is the thing that you
fear that we are well the worst case
scenario is we destroy the currency
completely right and so the dollar has
no so okay let's assume that happens
right let's say we do that which we've
been doing but slower but let's say it
completely goes it hasn't got there's a
lot there there's a long way to go
between where we are now and zero okay
so let's assume it goes to zero I'm long
crypto and technology stocks you're long
gold they all go up we're fine what's
the [__]
problem well first of all there's a big
problem because a lot of people first of
all you maybe crypto goes up maybe it
goes down who that you know there's no
way to know but but explain to me what
I'm fearing here myself when the dollar
because you're wiping out the savings of
a generation you're wiping out the
retirement of of
tbt I thought they were in debt you told
me they're ruling debt so we're wiping
yes you're wiping out debt but every
time you wipe out one person's debt you
wipe out somebody else's asset okay you
wipe out the value of people's p
insurance you said earlier that you
wanted the big reset that we should do
this and when the money is worthless you
can't buy things with it the farmer
doesn't want to give up his food because
you have nothing of value that he that
he wants America can't import anymore
because nobody wants our dollars I mean
if if we go through hyperinflation
I mean it's going to be riots there's
going to be I mean it's I mean it's
going to be bad it's not like something
that I'm looking forward to I understand
but you've got your gold and your real
estate and you'll be fine and I've got
my stuff so what are you fearing what is
the fear look and the other thing is the
government can become even more
oppressive than it is now and that the
worst case is they blame it all on
capitalism and the solution is that we
become a complete totalitarian state and
the government takes over everything
I mean so there's the you ask me what's
the worst thing that could possibly
happen right what is it you fear you you
so you're now fearing a totalitarian
state where they seize all your assets I
mean
okay well what good is investing in gold
and what good is doing anything I I
don't know I guess if they if they if
they throw me in jail or kill me I guess
it's not going to matter but I don't
know what they're going to do Tom what
is it that you fear Tom what is the fear
what is that black hole yeah so as
somebody who is very practiced in
staring into this I'll I'll walk you
through so um because I feel confident I
will make it to the other side sort of
come hell high water when Co kicked off
I realized I was afraid for uh people
that I know and love that don't
understand money and that that began my
journey of actually understanding what's
going on so like Peter I share exactly
his concern um and I'm a little unclear
on um the only thing that makes sense
for me for you to push on this is if you
think it's basically impossible for it
to happen because to me it is
self-evidently horrific to go through
something where um it's either a war an
external war or an internal War because
like Peter is saying there's just so
much anger and resentment at the
implosion of the debt which to Peter's
point is somebody's um asset that now
just went away people won't do that
quietly they will Rite also when you get
to the point where you can't feed your
populace because there's no money uh and
your money's hyperinflated and people
walking around with wheelbarrows full of
money to try to buy a loaf of bread um
that suddenly the line of Good and Evil
that Soldier nson talks about in the
gulg archipelago you realize it really
does run through every human heart and
all of a sudden all those narratives and
mythology that you're talking about to
hold us together as a society all of
those crumble and I'm sure all three of
of us are students of history but when
you become a student of History you
realize that the long Arc that bends
towards Justice is punctuated with
moments of such horrible cruelty death
and destruction that you just pray to
Sweet Baby Jesus you are not one of the
people that are around for one of those
moments of Correction and they they
happen and they happen so predictably
that the black hole I'm staring into
again I don't feel like I'm staring into
it for myself I've and I mean this is a
glimpse into my soul I've told the
employees here if it ever kicks off come
to the house first of all we have The
High Ground we are up on a hill uh I
care about them all and so I want to see
them Thrive we will do better as a part
of a collective but the fact that I even
have to say that out loud uh is is
unnerving now I bend towards optimism so
I actually think nothing is ever as good
or bad as you think it's going to be and
so I believe there is sort of this
stumbly slow erosion of the dollar path
that will end up looking something like
what happened to England now Peter when
you and I last spoke you pointed out
very rightly that World War I and World
War II were some pretty bad things and
so since that was part of how they end
up losing their empire and status as a
reserve currency I I concede the point
that that that is absolutely horrific so
I just know every Empire of all time has
crumbled and I really do think a lot
about how America becomes the next Rome
but the reason that becomes a meme and
the reason that people think it's
ridiculous is because the odds of it
happening in the next two years border
on zero the odds of it happening in the
next 10 years go up a little bit Ray
Delio puts um America being in a world
war at 50% over the next 10 years but
like maybe it happens in the next 20 and
so if it's true that it doesn't happen
for 10 or 20 years me or Peter and Peter
I think you know you have this
reputation and I have a feeling I'm
rapidly gaining it as well is like I've
predicted 10 of the last two recessions
right so I'm so focused on uh the
Confluence of things that go bad that I
end up potentially missing the all the
opportunities that are present that's
what I was trying to get in I'm not
saying you're right or wrong right I'm
just saying we should think about these
things there's another bias that I want
you to think
about is ask your wife if she shares the
same views and her friends do because
she's
British and she won't it's a quite a
uniquely American thing doomsday
prepping the fear of the decline of
Empire and the collapse of
society is weirdly an American thing
even though the Europeans have gone
through it twice two world wars where we
killed everybody each other in the most
horrific ways
possible Europeans don't think of the
same way of the collapse of civilization
that Americans do it's just a really
weird cultural phenomena um and it's
because it's the largest most powerful
economy and it's saddled with debt and
everything else so just again just
there's biases in everything that we do
that make
us as as you said rightly
Tom we some we project too far either
way and it can still be pretty horrible
in the middle it can still be a terrible
political environment there still could
be riots there still could be kinetic
Wars but it may not have to be the end
game yeah remember the the other thing
that's uniquely American is the degree
to which we depend on the dollar status
as Reserve currency to run trillion
dollar a year trade deficit so you know
we need to be supplied goods from abroad
and if we lose those Supply chains uh we
have no ability to to replace them so
it's it's it it we it could be you know
a a major collapse but the other you we
sell the best that what we did though
what the US did was really
clever is it created a dollar DEA system
where the rest of the world owes so many
dollars that they can't get rid of the
dollar it's like what we exported what
the Americans exported was
debt oh and inflation debt and inflation
but you know um yeah I mean you know
there are people that think that but you
know I I I I don't think that the dollar
is impervious because we have so much of
them and have have so much debt but the
point I wanted to make about recessions
is one of the problems with forecasting
recessions is the government gets to
Define them and the government comes out
with the GDP numbers and like I think
we're in a recession now I think we've
been in one for a while but the
government just doesn't acknowledge it
because of the way they keep score I
don't think the deflator is honest I
think GDP is going up because of prices
I don't think it's going up because the
wealth of the economy is expanding we're
just paying higher prices for things and
we're borrowing a lot of money to do it
the debt is growing faster faster than
the GDP numbers so all this is an
illusion we're not growing anything
we're we're spending ourselves into
bankruptcy we're buying products uh a
lot of those products are are are
imported and we're paying higher and
higher prices so we we could have been
in a Perpetual depression uh for years
and years and years I think we it's just
that the way that we keep track of it
you know we don't officially acknowledge
it I think look when you're debating the
currency and people's savings by 15% a
year over time everybody's going to feel
like they're not getting ahead everybody
feels this right and you're right
somewhere hidden within all of
this has been an ongoing depression from
2008 for the average
person not for a tech company not for
certain parts of society
but most people have been in a miserable
mess for a long time their wages haven't
gone up their costs have gone up it's
been terrible and they're they're like
choked with debt they can't pay their
kids to go to university they can't
afford retirement
savings yeah I agree that's it's been
bad for a long time yeah so uh just to
gaze into the abyss a little bit further
and I'd love to get a sense of where you
guys think this goes so
um I I believe that Society that's a
little overstated I believe that culture
is becoming a toxic soup and that toxic
soup is causing kids to um collapse
inside of themselves eat terribly poor
diet um they are having less sex less
babies um just a general lack of
optimism there's a a phenomenal meme
that says uh we'll put it up on the
screen in the Final Cut but it says uh
my parents and 30s and it shows you know
these little sketches standing outside
of a house let's buy a house it says me
in my 30s and it shows a guy just
absolutely frazzled and it's like your
maximum bid of a
$625 cheeseburger has been rejected uh
by Wendy's uh and that vibe that Meme
while funny is real and that really
worries me a lot in terms of um I think
that ultimately culture as a battle for
ideas and I think the ideas that are
taking hold of people's minds are
terrible and I have a feeling that to
some extent maybe a massive extent this
is an echo of what happened in 2008 and
so this becomes a question of inflation
interest rates um and so if I'm right
that that this isn't like forget the
Doomsday scenarios that that is just a
malaise that is gripping the Young and
that that's going to Ripple through
Society uh I don't know how much you
guys have read about the
industrious Revolution um but it's an
idea that I find
absolutely fascinating that part of what
made America great was that there was
not only the Industrial Revolution but
there was a sense of the Protestant work
ethic I'm going to go ham I'm going to
work until I Dro out of a heart attack
and I know how silly that sounds but
like it gave birth to the America that
leads an innovation became the dominant
Global superpower etc etc and man is
somebody who is hiring a lot of young
people I would just tell you ge zus like
we have to filter through all of the
people that just have that malaise of
like oh companies are just taking
advantage of me why would I run on the
hamster wheel and make better widgets
it's like those ideas will cause a real
problem and when I look at okay so how
do we solve it one just combating the
ideas but two solve the under Ling
problem and without solving the debt by
I look I hear you I don't think
inflation is the answer let me just say
that I think that you have to have a
period of austerity I think it is going
to be grotesquely unpopular but I don't
see a way around that even when you just
take sort of that milk toasty like ah
there's not going to be any big
revolution but we we do have to make a
societal change what do you guys think
about that and if you agree three what
is that path I just say again I just
think I just think we're using the wrong
framing we have I mean there's 76
million people in the United States who
are over 70 years old
now right you've got a demographic cliff
in front of your
face it's happening in Europe what South
Korea got to a
07 replacement rate right now right
we've got a population collapse coming
maybe those young kids are dead [__]
right they should not be doing any of
this stuff because it's all
worthless maybe you're wrong maybe they
can see what the future is for them
which is they're going to be replaced
pretty
quick the reason you don't want to hire
these people is you don't need to that's
the dirty truth here and we'll need to
hire less of
them what is happening is a much larger
disruption but it's not in the way of
the past it's always so easy to say the
past is going to repeat sure but in
different ways there is whole
revolutions happening in front of us
that are going to shape Society in ways
we can't yet understand and we're
looking back saying well maybe the
dollar gets trashed it's like oh my God
can't you see what's in front of us now
I'm an optimist I think there's a path
that we figure it out but I don't think
it's going to be without volatility but
it's going to be driven by that and not
that that is known and that is AI
robotics that forward is AI robotics
longevity you know so many structural
changes cracking the entire Human Genome
and figuring out Med so much to deal
with that is well we spent too much
money we're debating the dollar we're
going to have a hyperinflation it's like
yeah tell me something we don't know
tell me something we don't understand we
don't understand that that's scarier now
it could build Al be great it could be
amazing a world of
opportunity but my God it's not going to
be a straightforward course right just
just no well first of all you know
unfortunately I think inflation is the
answer I mean it's not the correct
answer it's not the solution and can you
sorry Peter just to check something can
you inflation versus debasement are they
the same things to you CPI versus no I'm
I I'm trying to make a point that he
said inflation was the well he didn't
think inflation was the answer I'm
saying it's it is the answer it's the
wrong answer it's not a solution
unfortunately it's the politically
expedient choice because the right
choice is too difficult for politicians
to make because politicians their
primary goal is their own reelection and
so that's how they see every problem is
how do I get reelected and so they're
not trying to make things better for the
country they're trying to perpetuate
their careers which are often at odds
with what's right for the country so
we're going to get stuck with
inflation uh no matter what now can we
get an offset to that by a burst of
productivity which without the inflation
would just be even better right because
the the free market is trying to lower
prices by increasing productivity the
government is raising them by creating
inflation and so it's a it's a a dance
uh but to the extent that we can have a
a huge surge in productivity that's
driven by by AI or robotics or a
combination of the two that's actually a
good thing um you know it that's not
what you'd be afraid about when it comes
to AI I mean if you're going to be
afraid about something the fear is that
AI decides to kill us all and it can
actually do it right that's the supposed
fear not that it takes away our jobs we
we don't want these jobs we want
computers to take away our jobs that's
great then we don't have to do them we
still get the stuff without having to do
the work I mean every advancement has
you know reduced the need for human
labor I mean if you go back to the
beginning of society everybody had a job
it was looking for food all day long
that's what you did right you had no
leisure you had nothing because you
worked every minute of every day it's
other than when you slept uh but as we
in invented things and tools we didn't
have to work as much and so we had more
Leisure ultimately if we can replace all
human labor with machines we're all
going to have a lot more Leisure and
we're all going to have a lot more St
are we going to have a system of money
because money is like expenditure of
energy whether it's human brain power
whatever and in exchange for money right
right and ultimately in a in an Ideal
World with complete abundance of
everything that we won't even need money
if I could just push a button and have
everything I need and I wouldn't have to
pay for it because it just gets conjured
into existence by some super
intelligence right I don't I don't need
money anymore money just facilitates
trade somebody has something I need or I
want how do I get it well I got to give
them something that they need or they
want but rather than barter uh we we we
we exchange a mutually but if we're not
bartering if we're not bartering our own
Services intelligence physical labor how
do we earn money well how are we going
to earn money in the future we may not
need to that's my point uh but obviously
between here and there people have to
find how did some who got put out of
business you know with a shovel you know
a guy that was digging a ditch and now
somebody invents a shovel and so we
don't need his many ditch diggers so
what did that guy do he he did something
um um and so people are going to have
their jobs replaced by computers or
robots and they're going to do something
else you know instead what I don't know
what I don't know all these things like
what they're going to do but the problem
might be if the government says hey you
lost your job so just go on welfare and
here's a check because you know you
that's that's a big problem if that's
what happens and then people end up
getting entrenched you know in that
state of dependency where they don't go
out and find something else to do
because they just you know stick with
the government check and that check is
you know is is offsetting the benefits
of productivity because the government
prints money to pay somebody to do
nothing um so it's it's the government
that would make the mistakes it wouldn't
be the free market innovating it would
be the government uh inflating and and
getting in the way looking
forward we're in a big year
2024 election year obviously the having
cycle the debt re structuring all
happens in the same year what do you
guys think the world looks like with a
Biden Victory what does it look like
with a trump Victory no different in in
in Market terms no different you don't
think the market will have a response at
all to one or the other won't give a
[__] it's really driven by liquidity and
flows
you know it's going to be they're all
doing the same game so no I don't think
it makes a a single bit of difference
I've not seen an election that has
turned markets because shock somebody's
come in Donald Trump huge shock what did
the market do sell off for exactly one
evening brexit huge shock what did the
market do sell off yeah it just doesn't
matter politics don't matter in the
short run but obviously they can change
the structure of economies in the long
run but the market doesn't seem to
concern itself with that when liquidity
seems to be the dominant factor that
drives markets and that's driven by
central banks do you think they're still
going to um be printing their way out of
problems there is no choice either one
there is no choice what are you going to
do you're going to bankrupt all the Baby
Boomers blow up all the banking system
because for what
Justice I the right answer is to blow it
all up nobody's going to do that it's
Insanity they will never do that so they
will do absolutely everything within
their power to try and not let that
happen and that it goes back to what
we've all been talking about is however
you define inflation I don't think it's
CPI inflation it's asset price inflation
by debasement is the game Financial
repression let's call it that that is
the game and they will do that now Pizza
may be right maybe it ends up in
hyperinflation I put a very that's the
worst case scenario I don't know that
that's where we're going I me no and
again I would say that's the worst case
scenario and possible I don't know what
probability but yeah but yeah that's
what they're doing they'll keep doing
repression why not but in answer you
know it's it's not going to change the
game I mean Trump's been president
before I mean he didn't change the game
then he he he ran up the debt when he
was president I think on the margin you
know it's it's it's worse to reelect
Biden than to put Trump back in office
but I don't think that Trump is going to
you know change what's going to happen
we're going to have a currency crisis
we're going to have a sovereign debt
crisis you know whether Trump or Biden
is in office whether it happens during
that four-year term again I don't know I
mean maybe they kicked a can down the
road and it happens you know on the
watch of whoever replaces them because
whoever wins we know one thing they
can't run again right you only get to
run twice so if whoever wins is not
going to be president in
2026 um so maybe they get out of Dodge
and maybe they don't um but I I I would
think that assuming we had the collapse
during the term of whoever wins right we
have a a crisis I would just assume have
Trump there than Biden you know Trump
has a greater probability of doing the
right thing than Biden Biden maybe has
no chance of doing the right thing and
Trump maybe has a slim chance so slim is
better than none and doing the right
thing in this case would be spending
less at the government level well
dramatic cut right they have to do the
opposite of every political Instinct
because what they want to do when
there's a the economy is weak they want
to try to stimulate it with more
government they want to run bigger
deficits they want to cut taxes they
want to print money they have to do the
opposite they have to shrink government
cut spending they may even have to raise
taxes I'd rather them just do it all
from the spending side but they got to
cut spending they got to let interest
rates go up they got to let Banks fail
they got let companies go bankrupt they
got to let people lose money they got to
allow a lot of painful things to happen
to have a real recovery that that that
is on the other side so do you think is
that is that what they should do do you
think yeah of course they have to do the
right thing it's like if you have a drug
habit stop taking drugs you know yeah
it's not going to be good you're going
to be in withdraw for a while but you
got to get the stuff out of your system
you got to be healthy we can't keep
drugging ourselves up and then we die of
an overdose that that's where you know
that's that's what hyperinflation is
it's the equivalent of a monetary
overdose you destroy the currency and
then you destroy the economy uh and so I
want to avoid that I want to all I the
we need to restructure the economy on a
in a sustainable path it's not on that
now it's it's it's it's a house of
cards and I don't want to I don't want
to keep the house of cards going knowing
eventually it's going to collapse even
worse
I want to let it collapse now so we can
start replacing it with with a
structural that sound a real house you
know not not a phony one so we've heard
clearly what you want to
happen what will happen what do you
think they're get they're going to keep
on printing until the dollar uh
collapses now the question is when when
the dollar do stop there a sec so
they're going to keep on printing so
given that
information What would would you do
investing wise I'm doing exactly what
I'm doing now it's like I'm I you know
but I'm hoping that they stop depresses
at some point when it gets bad enough uh
that they you know because once it's so
bad then all of your assets go down
right see once it's let me finish this
point once it's so bad that everybody in
power knows they're gone hey there's no
way I'm getting reelected with the econ
me this bad then maybe they'll do the
right thing because they they've run out
of options right they they they'll do
the right thing only after they've
exhausted all the other possibilities so
that we may be able to do the right
thing and and and stop the presses you
know before before you know the dollar
goes to nothing there there is there is
no graceful way out at this point we
we've long past that right there's there
is no you know
painfree uh solution here you know you
could hope that AI eases the pain and
and maybe it does hopefully it will you
know that would be good and I take this
differently I'm like if we have have an
observable Behavior which is most likely
to
repeat however ugly the situation is
around us we can actually help ourselves
get out of this trap as individual level
by investing correctly around this this
is what I strongly believe in I think
the world is truly screwed but as you
pointed out there is only one way they
will deal with this armed with that
information that is like the Magic
Bullet this is the everything behind
this idea of the everything code is if
you know this to be what is going to
happen you can look into the future and
you know what the hell to own except
every time they've done it before the
dollar hasn't collapsed because people
have maintained confidence if the dollar
Colles if the dollar collapses it's very
different it's going to look very
different than what you've seen in the
last 20 years I don't know last time I
checked the Venezuelan stock market went
up like a rocket
ship all I'm saying is yeah Tom I spoke
about this when we first started
speaking back in
2020 it's this is the life
raft right the life raft is what saves
people it could be gold I have no issue
with that it could be Bitcoin it could
be tech stocks it could be whatever you
shouldn't be concerning yourself with
any of this stuff this apocalypse
because we know the outcome is financial
repression and print more
money right so we just get to hop on the
life raft and we avoid all of that
that's what I don't get about all of the
the Doom arguments is I get it it's
totally screwed but it's so predictable
because we all agree what they'll do
right but the thing is they've been a
they they've been able to do it and not
precipitate a a a real crisis that only
matters if we do a different thing in
the face of what we've all said too much
debt inflation's the only answer no no
not a different thing if we keep doing
the same thing eventually it's not going
to turn out the way it has the world is
not going to accept it the world is not
going to believe our ability to
stimulate with QE with inflation is
predicated on the false belief that the
FED could shrink the balance sheet uh uh
withdraw the liquidity normalize
interest rates we could pay off the debt
I mean when the markets come to the
unfortunate realization that that's not
true
then the bottom drops out and and we
can't kick the can down the road anymore
because there's no more Road and then we
have to deal with the consequences in a
way that we haven't had to deal with
them in the past right we can't send out
stimulus checks because they bounce
right or they don't buy anything forget
about the big picture what they must do
what what happens to humans in that
level you and I in Investments and Tom
right the individual what do it what
happens right if so let's play this out
and I've gone through this in great
depth is when you play it out if you go
to hyperinflation he who owns assets
wins
fact if you go to any of these you
certainly lose a lot less I mean the
only way you do not win is if they do
what you want the most which is tighten
policy so badly that you let the air out
of everything then we completely get
nuked
we all what I want them to do what I
advocate that they do is contrary to my
strategy because I don't invest based on
what I want but based on what I expect I
expect them to do the wrong thing and so
that's how I invested but even if they
do the right thing I think I'll lose a
lot less than everybody else which means
I might win because it's all relative so
if if if my portfolio goes down but the
things I want to buy go down even more
I'm I'm
wealthier uh but yes the the best thing
for my strategy is that they do the
opposite of what I'm advising but that's
what I expect them to do you know you
you you you you hope for the best but
you plan for the worst I hope they don't
do these mistakes but I'm pretty sure
they're going to make them you know
that's just the the the the most likely
scenario I'd rather they didn't do what
you want them to do because everybody is
going to lose their entire they're going
to lose more if they do what I expect
inflation is going to wipe out more
people than honest default and
restructuring slower uh
it'll happen slower you can take your
pains fast or take it it's all pain
right it's all pain it's pain be slower
yeah it'll be a slower death but it will
be a more painful death it's all pain I
get that I have one last question for
you and it'll be quick over the next six
months where do you guys think the price
of Bitcoin is going to be well I would
guess lower actually it's gone up so
much at this point six months from now
my my guess would be lower it's about
60,000 now right 61,000 so i' take the
under for six months I'll take the over
just on the historical pattern of
election years uh stuff like that it
tends to go up in a straight line so you
know my time Horizon is not really 6
months but generally speaking in these
election years this kind of Bitcoin
harving cycle it tends to be higher so
significantly
higher significantly higher so not just
higher how much higher I
think I don't know but you know I it
wouldn't be surprised me if it's trading
at 75,000
uh by July August I'm might that would I
wouldn't be surprised by that either but
I also wouldn't be surprised if it's you
know 20,000 or less so I mean gentlemen
I cannot thank you enough I'm beyond
grateful for the time that you gave all
of us today to um go through those ideas
I think it's really super useful
hopefully this is round one of many to
everybody watching at home if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
gentlemen where should they connect with
you easiest place find me on Twitter at
Ral GMI and if you want more of this
kind of
information these kind of debates
realvision doccom um in fact there's
realvision doccom impact it's free just
sign up and start watching lots of
incredible people it's not my biases
Peter's been on you've been on
everybody's been on uh and we have some
great long form conversation so uh
realvision tocom yeah so for me if you
want to cash in some of your uh Bitcoin
for actual gold you can contact the Reps
at shift gold uh on our website we even
again you know you can even take your
Bitcoin and and and exchange them for
gold through uh bit pay uh if you have a
larger portfolio guess again uh I I I
recommend that people invest uh not just
save with gold but invest in productive
assets I have an asset management
company based here in Puerto Rico EUR
Pacific Asset Management uh the website
is europ pac. comom e rac.com so check
us out you can give us a call there's a
toll-free number on there and you can
fill out a form and have a
representative call you back and discuss
the strategies I have a new newsletter
now that I'm writing at shifts
sovereign. comom so you can visit that
website and sign up for our my my
newsletter there uh you can follow me on
social media my my biggest platform is
Twitter I've got almost a million
followers it seems like it's taking a
long time I'm like 5,000 away uh from a
million but every time I gain a few I
lose a few so it's been difficult these
last the this last mile uh but you can
follow me on Twitter uh but I'm also on
Instagram Facebook uh Tik Tok I mean I
put we put out a lot of content uh
YouTube I have over half a million
subscribers been there for a while on my
YouTube channel but make sure to listen
to the Peter shift Show podcast I do one
or two a week sometimes more depending
on what's going on and how much time I
have but you can listen at shiff
radio.com uh you can listen on my
YouTube channel the shift report
anywhere you know app iTunes anywhere
they have podcasts uh you can listen to
uh to the podcast so and there are a lot
of ways to follow me and invest with me
and I've got mutual funds too so you
could you could buy my funds at Schwab
or Fidelity I'm gonna add a couple more
since Peter did some money one is my my
um um Asset Management business which is
a uh it's a fund of crypto hedge funds
we invest in the world's best crypto
hedge funds that's xam exp aam
exponential agent Asset Management
also all of my research I've been doing
for 20 years all of the stuff that I
talk about comes from Global macro
investor that's the epicenter of my
thinking that's everything that I've
done so if anyone gets a chance uh check
out some of that stuff as well I love it
all right everybody thanks for joining
and until next time my friends be
legendary take care
peace to learn more about the current
economic crisis be sure to check out my
conversation with Patrick Bet David this
guy stole 8 billion on people's money
we're not talking million or $80 million
$8
billion and he was practically buying
politicians